 Happy holidays, everybody! We gave Steve Gibson the week off. Actually, we gave him two weeks off,
 but coming up next, the best of security now 2024.
 Podcasts you love from people you trust. This is Twit.
 This is security now, episode 1006. For Christmas Eve,
 December 24th, 2024, the best of the year.
 Hey, everybody! I'm Leo LaPorte, and welcome to Security Now's Best of 2024. For years,
 Steve would get mad at us when we said, "Steve, you can't do a show. It's Christmas Eve.
 It's New Year's Eve." This year, I guess, because I don't know, Steve's married now and
 wants to spend more time with his family. He's very happy to have Christmas in New Year's Eve off.
 So we're very happy to give it to him. This week, we're going to do a best of,
 and there were a lot of moments all year long in security now that we're pretty fascinating.
 It's almost hard to pick just one, but let's start with something early in the year.
 Something that I think Steve really had the scoop on. A mysterious backdoor in Apple's iPhones.
 I want to begin, as I said, with a bit of a follow-up to last week's news.
 We've been talking about it on Macbreak Weekly today. We talked about it on Twitter on Sunday.
 It's really a big deal story, which I'm not seeing anywhere but here.
 That's exactly right. In fact, we have some Q&A later, and one of our listeners said,
 "How is this not getting more attention?" Anyway, we will talk about that when we get there.
 The way we left things last week in the wake of this revelation was with a large array of possibilities.
 Since then, I've settled upon exactly one, which I believe is the best fit
 with every fact we have. Again, no speculation here. Although, again, we're never going to have
 a lot of answers to these questions. Many people sent notes following up on last week's podcast.
 Many doubted the NSA conspiracy theory because of those other not easy-to-effect steps
 involving other clearly inadvertent mistakes in Apple's code that were needed by this particular
 malware. I don't know why it didn't occur to me last week, but it has now. As we know and have
 covered here in great detail in the past, Apple has truly locked their iPhone down
 every way from Sunday. I believe from all the evidence and focus that Apple has put into it,
 that Apple's iPhones are truly secure. But would Apple actually produce a smartphone
 handset that they, and I mean they, absolutely, positively, truly could not get into even if it
 meant the end of the world? Oh, that's a very good point. Right. If Apple believed that they could
 design and field a truly and totally secure last resort backdoor means of accessing their
 devices in the event that the world depended upon it. I believe that they would have designed
 such a backdoor. And I believe that they did deliberately and purposefully. Or their own use. Yes. And I
 do not think less of them for it. In fact, I think that the case could be made that it would be
 irresponsible for Apple not to have provided such a backdoor. Yeah. What if Dr. Evil had an iPhone
 with the launch codes on it, right? Well, that's where I'm going here. We'll likely never know
 whether any external agency may have made them do it. And yes, doing so could hardly be more
 controversial. But I could imagine a conversation among just a very few at the very top of Apple.
 Tim Cook in his head of engineering and of security. They had to have had a conversation
 about whether it should be possible under some set of truly dire circumstances
 for them to get into somebody else's locked phone. Obviously, the security of such a system
 would be more critical than anything. But their head of engineering security would have explained
 as I did last week, that as long as the secret access details never escaped, because it's impossible
 to probe anything that must be accompanied by a signature hash, there would truly be no way for
 this backdoor to be discovered. As I said last week, from everything we've seen, it was designed
 to be released in the field where it would be active yet totally safe. So if Tim Cook were told
 that Apple could design and build and build in an utterly secure emergency prevent the end of world
 escape hatch into their otherwise utterly and brutally secure devices. And this escape hatch
 could never possibly be opened by anyone else ever. I imagine Tim would have said, under those
 conditions, yes. I think that most CEOs who are in the position to understand that with great power
 comes great responsibility when assured that it could not possibly be maliciously discovered and
 abused to damage their users would say, yes, build it in. I trust Apple as much as it's possible
 to trust any commercial entity operating within the United States. I believe that they absolutely
 will protect the privacy of their users to the true and absolute limit of their ability.
 If the FBI were to obtain a locked iPhone known to contain exactly as you said Leo,
 the location and relevant disarming details of a nuclear weapon set on a timer and hidden
 somewhere in Manhattan, I would be thanking Apple for having the foresight to create a super secure
 means for them and them alone to gain entry to their device. And I'd argue that in doing so,
 they did have the best interests of their customers in mind. In this scenario, the great many iPhone
 users lives would be saved. There are all manner of conspiracy theories possible here. Yeah,
 obviously. And this one of mine is only one of many. But of all the possible theories,
 I believe this one fits the facts best and makes the most sense. Of course, the first thing everyone
 will say is, yeah, but Gibson, they did lose control of it. And it was being used by malware
 to hurt some of Apple's users. And that's true. In fact, that's the only reason the world learned
 of it. If this scenario is correct, Apple never divulged this to any entity and never would.
 This would never have been meant for this FBI, CIA or NSA to have for their own use.
 If an impossibly high bar were reached, Tim Cook would say, have an agent, bring us the phone,
 and we'll see what we can do. But somewhere within Apple were people who did know,
 perhaps someone inside was set up and compromised by a foreign group. Perhaps Apple had a long
 standing mole. Perhaps it was a gambling debt or the threat of some extremely embarrassing
 personal information being disclosed. Now, one thing we've learned and seen over and over on this
 podcast is that when all of the security technology is truly bulletproof, the human factor becomes
 the lowest hanging fruit. Just ask LastPass how they feel about the human factor, which bit them
 badly. Okay, so where does this leave us today? We know that all Apple iPhones containing the A12
 through A16 chips contain this backdoor and always will. We don't know that it's the only
 backdoor those chipsets contain as we touched on last week, but Apple doesn't need another
 backdoor since they still have access to this one. They locked a door in front of this one,
 but they can always unlock it again. After being contacted by Kaspersky, Apple's iOS updates blocked
 the memory mapped IO access that was discovered being taken advantage of by malware. But Apple
 is able to run any software they choose on their own phones, which means that Apple still has
 access to this backdoor. Should they ever need to use it? And this means that they've lost plausible
 deniability. They have the ability to open any iPhone that they absolutely must. So this poses
 a new problem for Apple when law enforcement now comes knocking with a court order, as it's almost
 certain to, with way below that bar requests for random iPhone unlocking to assist in this or that
 case. So this is a new mess for Apple. I'm sure they're facing that. Apple's most recent silicon
 is the A17. Yet Kaspersky told us that this facility had only been seen in the A12 through A16.
 If the malware did not contain that initial unique per chip generation unlock code for the A17
 silicon, and we know that it didn't, then this same backdoor might still be present in today's
 iPhone 15 and other A17 based devices. That's the most reasonable assumption since it was there for
 the first, you know, for the previous five generations, Apple obviously likes to have it.
 But what about the next iteration of silicon for the ACE for A18? Another thing we don't know
 is what policy change this disclosure may have for the future. We don't know how committed Apple was
 to having this capability. But I think I've made a strong argument for the idea that it has to have
 it. Have they been scared off? Well, maybe we'll see what happens now, you know, as I said, with
 law enforcement asking them to unlock, you know, everybody's iPhone. Will they move it to a different
 location within the ARM 64 bit address space yet keep it around? As we were after last week,
 we're left with a handful of unanswered and unanswerable questions. But my intention here
 was to hone this down to explore what appears to be the single most likely scenario. Apple designed
 and is quite proud of the GPU section of those chips, which contains the backdoor hardware.
 There's no chance they were not aware of the little hash algorithm protected DMA engine
 built into one corner of the chip. People within Apple knew listeners of this podcast know that
 I always separate policy decisions from mistakes, which unfortunately happen. So I sincerely hope
 that Apple's policy was to guard this as perhaps their most closely held secret. And specifically,
 that it was never their policy to disclose it to any outside agency of any kind for any reason.
 Somewhere, however, a mistake happened. And I'd wager that by now Apple knows where and how that
 mistake occurred. Well, I hope you're enjoying this best of it's always fun to do these. And
 I have to tell you, it's a lot of work. And I really appreciate our team. The people work so
 hard, Anthony Nielsen, our creative director, our producers and editors, Benito Gonzalez, Kevin
 King, John Ashley, they work so hard to put this all together for you. All of our hosts,
 our contributors do. And of course, there's the office people who do work in continuity,
 like veven Sebastian, our CEO Lisa. Twit is a is a big effort. And we think what we're doing
 is really important. I hope you do too. I hope you enjoy the company and learn from the information.
 And if you do, I'd like you to consider joining our club because frankly, in 2025,
 that's the only thing that's going to keep Twit going. If you like what you hear and you want to
 continue, please, seven bucks a month, consider joining club Twit, Twit.tv slash club Twit.
 You get ad free versions of all the shows access to our discord special programming.
 You don't get anywhere else. But really, the main thing you get is that warm and fuzzy feeling
 that you're keeping Twit going. We need your help. I hate to beg, but we really do Twit.tv slash
 club Twit. But enough of that on with the show. Everybody knows how bullish and excited I am
 about Google's privacy sandbox. Yes. We all we all know I'm a bit of a fan boy for technology.
 And this is a bunch of very interesting new technology that solves some very old problems.
 Google clearly understands that their economic model is endangered due to the fundamental tension
 that exists between advertisers, primarily themselves, who demand to know everything possible
 about the viewers of their ads and those viewers along with their governments who are becoming
 increasingly concerned about privacy and anonymity. The emergence of global privacy control and
 the return of DNT do not track has not gone unnoticed by anyone whose cash flow depends upon knowing
 something about the visitors to their websites. As we've been covering this through the years,
 we've watched Google iterate on a solution to this very thorny problem. And I believe,
 though the final solution was to transfer the entire problem into the user's browser,
 that they found a solution that really can work. But and this is a huge but that informs today's
 title topic. It appears that the rest of the world does not plan to go down without a fight.
 Not everyone is convinced. Apparently not everyone believes that they're going to need to follow
 Google. And it turns out that there is a workaround that is not good. So a recent financial times
 headline read Amazon strikes add data deal with reach as Google kills off cookies,
 which was followed by the subhead media sector scrambles to deal with fallout from phase out
 of cross website trackers. So with a little bit of editing for the content for our listeners,
 the financial times writes tech giant Amazon has struck a deal with the UK's largest publisher
 reach to obtain customer data to target online advertising as the media industry scrambles to
 respond to Google's move to acts cookies. In one of the first such agreements in Europe,
 Amazon and reach unveiled a partnership on Monday designed to compensate
 for the loss of third party cookies that help gather information about users by tracking their
 activity across websites to help target advertising. Google said this month that it had started to
 remove cookies on its Chrome browser following a similar move by Apple to block them over Safari
 aiming to switch off all third party cookies by the end of the year. Reach said it will partner
 with Amazon on sharing contextual first party data, for example, allowing advertisers to know
 what articles people are looking at with the US tech group using the information to sell more
 targeted advertising on the UK publishers sites. The company said the deal comes quote as the
 advertising world tackles deprecation of third party cookies, a long anticipated industry milestone
 that Google kick started in early January unquote. Financial details for the arrangement were not
 revealed. The partnership involves the contextual advertising of Mantis originally a brand safety
 tool that could ensure that brands were not being presented next to potentially harmful or
 inappropriate content. The tool is also now used to place ads next to content users may want to see
 helping to better target specific audiences with relevant advertising. Other publishers also use
 Mantis. Amazon's ad director, EU of EU ad tech says Fraser lock said that quote as the industry
 shifts towards an environment where cookies are not available, first party contextual signals are
 critical in helping us develop actionable insights that enable our advertisers to reach relevant
 audiences without sacrificing reach, relevancy or ad performance, I'd quote. The loss of cookies
 means that almost all internet users will become close to unidentifiable for advertisers. The risk
 for advertisers is that their advertising offer becomes much less valuable at a time when they're
 already losing ad revenues, which has led to thousands of job cuts in the past year. Reach last year
 announced 450 roles would be axed. Other media groups are also looking at deals involving their
 customer data. According to industry executives, some publishers are experimenting more with
 registration pages or paywalls that mean people first give first party information that they can
 use such as email addresses and logins reaches already seeking to harvest more such data from readers.
 John Steinberg, chief executive of future said that the quote elimination of third party cookies
 is one of the biggest changes to the advertising market in the digital age. Unquote, he added that
 quote advertisers and agencies will be looking to publishers that have high quality editorial
 scale and rich first party data. Unquote and predicted that quote advertisers, agencies and
 quality publishers will work even more closely together to reach audiences that drive outcomes
 for brands. Unquote, Sir Martin Sorrell, chief executive of advertising firm S4 Capital said that
 some clients that did not have access to first party data on their customers were panicking.
 He said that there would be more focus on getting customers to sign up to websites with their
 information as companies attempted to boost their stores of consented data. Unquote.
 Okay, so let's think about this for a minute. This notion of requiring more user signups
 is interesting and it's not something that had occurred to me before. This article makes it clear
 that the advertising industry is not going to let go and go down without a fight. They don't want
 to change. They don't want to adopt Google's strongly anonymous interest based solution. No,
 they want to continue to know everything they possibly can about everyone, which is something
 Google's dominant Chrome browser will begin actively working to prevent at least using the
 traditional tracking methodology. So what are they going to do and what's up with this signing
 into sites business? It occurred to me that one way of thinking about the traditional presence
 of third party tracking cookies is that because they effectively identify who is going from site
 to site on the Internet, there's no need for us to explicitly sign up when we arrive somewhere
 for the purpose of identifying ourselves to the site and its advertisers. Cookies do that for us
 silently and unseen on our behalf. Who we are when we visit a website is already known
 from all of the cookies are browsers transmit in response to all of the transparent pixels
 and beacons and scripts and ads that laden today's typical website. But soon all of that traditional
 silent continuous background identification tracking is going to be prevented and the advertising
 industry is finally waking up to that reality. What this means for a website itself is significant,
 perhaps even drastic, a reduction in advertising revenue, since as we know advertisers will pay
 much more for an advertisement that shown to someone whose interests and history they know.
 That allows them to choose the most relevant ads from their inventory, which makes the presentation
 of the ad that the viewer sees more valuable and thus generates more revenue for the website
 that's hosting the ad. And that's of course been the whole point of all this tracking.
 That's why websites themselves have never been anti-tracking and it's the reason so many
 websites cause their visitors browsers to contact so many third-party domains. It's good for business
 from the website's perspective and it increases the site's revenue. And besides visitors don't see
 any of that happening. So tomorrow when visitors swing by a website with Chrome,
 which no longer allows tracking and those visitors are therefore anonymous and far less valuable to
 that site's advertisers, how does a website itself de-anonymize its visitors to know who they are
 for the purpose of identifying them to its advertisers so that those advertisers will pay
 that site as much money as possible. The answer is horrible and is apparently on the horizon.
 The website will require its visitors to register and sign up before its content and its ads can be
 viewed. At the end of that Financial Times piece they quoted Sir Martin Sorrell, the chief executive
 of advertising at S4 Capital saying quote "some clients that did not have access to first-party
 data on their customers were panicking and that there would be more focus on getting customers
 to sign up to websites with their information as companies attempt to boost their stores of
 consented data." Now these websites won't be charging any money for this sign up. It's not
 money from their visitors they want. It's the identities of those visitors that for the first time
 they need to obtain from that first-party relationship in order to share that information
 with their advertisers so that they can be paid top dollar for the ads displayed on their websites.
 And you can be 100% certain that the fine print of every such site's publicly posted policy
 privacy policy will state that any information they obtain may be shared with their business
 partners and affiliates meaning the advertisers on their sites. We thought those cookie permission
 pop-ups were bad but things might soon be getting much worse and those sign up to create an account
 forms may also attempt to obtain as much demographic information as possible about their visitors.
 You know oh while you're here creating an account please tell us a bit more about yourself
 by filling out the form below so that we can better tailor our content to your needs and
 interests. Right, such form fill will likely be a one-time event per browser since a persistent
 first-party logon cookie will then be given to our browser to hold and return to the site.
 So it will only be a brief hassle once but the result of filling out a form to create an account
 at every site which might begin to require one will be that our visits to that site will no longer
 even have the pretense of anonymity. We will be known to that site and thus we will in turn
 be known to every one of that site's advertisers. We may forget that we have an account there
 we may we may find our name shown in the upper right hand corner of the screen with a menu
 allowing us to log out change our email address our password etc and password managers are likely
 going to become even more important because typical internet users will be juggling many
 more internet login accounts than they've ever needed before. Historically we only ever needed
 to log on to a site when we had we had some need to create an enduring relationship with that site.
 That is what promises to change sites with which we have no interest or need to be known
 will begin insisting that we tell them who we are in exchange for access to their content
 even though it'll be free and the reason for their insistence will be that we become a much
 more valuable visitor once they're able in turn to tell their advertisers exactly who we are.
 And it's all perfectly legal because no tracking is happening we sign up and implicitly grant our
 permission for our real world identities to be shared with any and all of that site's business
 associates. Most people will have no idea what's going on maybe it won't actually be that big a
 deal it won't be obvious why sites they've been visiting for years are suddenly asking them to
 create an account they already have lots of other accounts everywhere else and the site won't be
 asking for money just for their identities which most people are not concerned about divulging.
 One thing we can be certain of is that a trend of forced identification before the content of an
 advertising supported website can be viewed will cause the EFF to have a connection. Nothing could
 ever be more antithetical to their principles. The EFF wants nothing short of absolute and complete
 anonymity for all users of the internet so this represents a massive step directly away from that
 goal. The EFF would be well served in fact to get behind Google's initiative which is far more
 privacy preserving than this end around that appears to be looming. It almost makes third party
 cookie tracking look attractive by comparison. I don't want to be forced to create accounts for
 every low value website I might visit briefly. If this happens it's going to change the way the
 internet feels. It's going to be interesting to see how all this shakes out and yes I am more glad
 than ever to be going past episode 999 since it's going to be very interesting to be observing and
 sharing what comes next. It's been a crazy year with Chrome and Google and all of the weird things
 you're doing to try to make it possible to hold two thoughts simultaneously advertising good advertising
 bad. We'll see if they can figure it out. You're watching Security Now's best of 2024. We're
 glad you're here. 24/24 continued with a little shock for people who had used Microsoft's BitLocker
 encryption watch. Okay so BitLocker chipped or cracked? The number one most sent to me
 news item of the past week. Wow it was like everybody. Did you see this scene? This scene is
 oh yeah. Was the revelation that PCs whose secret key storage trusted platform module functions
 are provided by a separate TPM chip outside of the main CPU are vulnerable to compromise
 by someone with physical access to the machine. This case was a surprise to many people who assumed
 that this would not be the case and that their mass storage systems were more protected than
 they turn out to be by Microsoft's BitLocker. During system boot up the small unencrypted startup
 portion of Windows sees that BitLocker is enabled and configured on the machine and that the system
 has a TPM chip which contains the the decryption key. So that pre boot code says to the TPM chip
 hey there. I need the super secret encryption key that you're holding and the TPM chip replies
 yeah got it right here. Here it comes no problem and then sends it over to the processor.
 The only glitch here is that anyone with a hardware probe is able to connect the probe
 to the communicating chips of the processor or the TPM chip or perhaps even to the traces
 on the printer circuit board which interconnect those two if those traces happen to lie on the
 surface. Once connected the computer can be booted and that entire happy conversation can be passively
 monitored. Neither end of the conversation will be any the wiser and the probe is able to intercept
 and capture the TPM chips reply to the processor's request for the BitLocker decryption key.
 These are the sorts of tricks that the NSA not only knows about but has doubtless taken advantage
 of who knows how many times but it's not made more widely obvious until a clever hacker
 like this stack smashing guy that was his handle comes along and shines a very bright light on it
 so it's a wonderful thing that he did and I should note that this is not the first time this has come
 to light it happened a few years ago and a few years before that so it's the kind of thing that
 services every so often and people go what oh my god okay the fundamental weakness in the design
 is that the TPM's key storage and the consumer of that stored key are located in separate components
 whose communication pins are readily accessible and the obvious solution to this dilemma is to
 integrate the TPM's storage functions into the system's processor so that their highly sensitive
 communication remains internal and inaccessible to casual eavesdropping and as it turns out that's
 exactly what more recent Intel and AMD processors have done so this inherent vulnerability to physical
 attack occupies a window in time where discrete TPM modules exist and are being maybe overly
 dependent upon for their security and before their functions had been integrated into the CPU
 it's also unclear like just broadly whether all future CPUs will always include a fully
 integrated TPM or whether Intel and AMD will only do this for some higher-end models or
 perversely it turns out some lower-end models anyway all of this created such a stir in the
 industry that yesterday on Monday the 12th R's Technica posted a very nice piece about the whole
 issue under and under the sub-head what PCs are affected the R's guy wrote bit lockers a form
 a full description that exists mostly to prevent someone who steals your laptop from taking the
 drive out sticking it into another system and accessing your data without requiring your account
 password in other words they're unable to start up your laptop so they just take the hard drive
 out and stick it in a different machine which they know how to start up many modern windows 10
 and 11 systems they write use bit locker by default when you sign into a Microsoft account
 in Windows 11 home or pro on a system with a TPM your drive is typically encrypted automatically
 and a recovery key is uploaded to your Microsoft account in a Windows 11 pro system you can turn
 on bit locker manually whether you use a Microsoft account or not backing up the recovery key
 anyway you see fit they say regardless a potential bit locker exploit could affect the personal data
 on millions of machines so how big of a deal is this new example of an old attack for many
 individuals the answer is probably not very one barrier to entry for attackers is technical many
 modern systems use firmware TPM modules or FTPMs that are built directly into most processors I think
 all AMD systems do that right right yeah in cheaper machines he writes this can be a way to save on
 manufacturing why buy a separate chip if you can just use a feature of the CPU you're already paying
 for in other systems including those that advertise compatibility with Microsoft's Pluton security
 processors it's marketed as a security feature that specifically integrates these kinds of so-called
 sniffing attacks that's because there's no external communication bus to sniff for an F TPM
 it's integrated into the processor so any communication between the TPM and the rest of the system also
 happens inside the processor virtually all self-built Windows 11 compatible desktops will use FTPMs
 as will modern budget desktops and laptops we checked for recent sub $500 Intel and AMD laptops
 from Acer and Lenovo all used firmware TPMs ditto for four self-built desktops with motherboards
 from Asus gigabyte and AsRock ironically if you're using a high-end Windows laptop your laptop is
 slightly more likely to be using a dedicated external TPM chip which means you might be vulnerable
 the easiest way to tell what type of TPM you have is to go into the Windows security center
 go to the device security screen and click security processor details if your TPMs manufacturer
 is listed as Intel for Intel systems or AMD for AMD systems you're most likely using your systems
 F TPM and this exploit won't work on your system the same goes for anything with Microsoft listed
 as the TPM manufacturer which generally means the computer uses Pluton but if you see another
 manufacturer listed that is not until AMD or Microsoft you're probably using a dedicated external TPM
 he said I saw STM micro electronics TPMs that's a very popular one in a recent high-end Asus Zen book
 Dell XPS 13 and mid-range Lenovo ThinkPad stack smashing the guy who publicized this again
 you know reminded everybody of this also posted photos of a ThinkPad X1 carbon gen 11
 with a hardware TPM and all the pins someone would need to try to nab the encryption key as
 evidence that not all modern systems has switched over to F TPMs admittedly something I had initially
 assumed he wrote laptops made before 2015 or 2016 are are all virtually guaranteed to be using
 external hardware TPMs when they have any that's not to say F TPMs are completely infallible
 some security researchers have been able to defeat the firmware TPMs in some of AMD's processors
 with quote two to three hours of physical access to the target device unquote firmware TPMs
 just aren't susceptible to the kind of physical Raspberry Pi based attack that stack smashing
 demonstrated okay so there is some good news here at least in the form of what you can do
 if you really need and want the best possible protection it's possible to add a pin to the boot
 up process even now so that the additional factor of something you know can be used to strongly resist
 TPM only attacks Microsoft provides a couple of very good and extensive pages
 which focus upon a hardening bit locker against attacks I've included links to those articles
 in the show notes but to give you a sense for the process of adding a pin to your system right now
 ours explains under their subhead so what can you do about it they say most individual users don't
 need to worry about this kind of attack many consumer systems don't use dedicated TPM chips
 at all and accessing your data requires a fairly skilled attacker who's very interested in pulling
 the data off your specific PC rather than wiping it and reselling or stripping it for parts he says
 this is not true of business users who deal with confidential information on their work laptops
 but their IT departments hopefully do not need to tell anyone to do that okay so if you want to
 give yourself an extra layer of protection Microsoft recommends setting up an enhanced pin that is
 required at startup in addition to the theoretically sniffable key that the TPM provides IT admins can
 enable this remotely via group policy to enable it on your own system open the local group policy
 editor using you know windows R to open the run and then type gp edit.msc hit enter then navigate to
 computer configuration administrative templates windows components bit locker driver encryption
 an operating system drives enable both the require additional authentication at startup
 and allow enhanced pins for start for for startup then open a command prompt window as an admin
 and type manage hyphen BDE hyphen protectors hyphen ad c colon hyphen TPM and pin that command
 and this is all the show notes of course that command will immediately prompt you to set a pin
 for the drive I would think of it as a password anyway he says once you've done this the next time
 you boot the system will ask for a pin before it boots into windows he says an attacker with
 physical access to your system and a sufficient amount of time may be able to gain access by
 brute forcing this pin so it's important to make it complex like any good password and again I would
 make it really good if you're taking the time to do it at all why not he see if he finishes a
 highly motivated technically skilled attacker with extended physical access to your device
 may still be able to find a way around these safeguards regardless having disk encryption
 enabled keeps your data safer than it would be with no encryption at all and that's and that will be
 enough to deter lesser skilled casual attackers from being able to get at your stuff so ultimately
 we're facing the same trade off as always convenience versus security in the absence of a very strong
 pin password anyone using a system that is in any way able to decrypt itself without their
 assistance should recognize the inherent danger of that if the system escapes their control
 bad guys might be able to arrange to have the system do the same thing
 for them that is decrypt without anything that they don't know requiring something you know
 is the only true protection maybe something else that you have if you if that could be arranged
 that's the what I did what I did my little european trip to and to introduce squirrel
 is I had my my laptop you know linked to my phone and my iPhone had to be present at the same time
 bit locking or bit lockering a drive is certainly useful since it will provide you know it will
 strongly prevent anyone who separates the drive from the machine from obtaining anything that's
 protected in any way so bit locker yes pin yes and as we've seen it's possible to add a pin
 after the fact and if your pin is weak you can still strengthen it and you should consider doing so
 do we still like Veracrypt would you prefer Veracrypt to bit locker bit lockers so convenient
 that but it's convenient and Veracrypt is a hundred percent strong I was thinking the same
 thing bit locker suffers a little bit from the you know the the the the the monoculture effect of
 everybody having it and it just being built in on the other hand it's convenience means that it
 won't get in anyone's way right yeah you just log in the computer is normal yeah yeah but if you
 wanted really better security I think Veracrypt is it we still I that's still our choice now that
 now that bit what it was it it's predecessor I forgot now be what was it true trip trip trip yeah yep all
 right if your pin is weak you can still straighten it the motto of the day
 pin is weak you can still straighten I like it Leo that's kalia who is a textile worker
 I do want to ask a little tiny favor from all of you not just club twit members
 every year you may remember we do a survey of our audience we want to get to know you a little bit
 better it helps us with sales because we can say you know as we often do 70 percent of our audience
 our it decision makers that kind of thing it's a very quick survey shouldn't only take you a
 couple of minutes twit.tv/survey this is the new 2024 2025 survey we're starting a little bit earlier
 this year than we usually do it just helps us and it would be a be doing us all a favor if you
 if you did it so in between shows maybe twit.tv/survey thank you so much we can guess we know
 that pq stands for post quantum and of course we'd be right so is this apple's third attempt
 at a post quantum protocol after one and two somehow failed or failed short what no you know pq three
 what happened to pq one and pq two no apple has apparently invented levels of security oh and put
 themselves at the top of the heap so pq three offers what they call level three security so here's how
 seer sear apples security engineering and architecture group introduce this new protocol in their recent
 blog posting they write today we are announcing the most significant cryptographic security upgrade
 in iMessage history with the introduction of pq three a groundbreaking post quantum cryptographic
 protocol that advances the state of the art of end-to-end secure messaging with compromise
 resilient encryption and extensive defenses against even highly sophisticated quantum attacks pq three
 is the first messaging protocol to reach what we call level three security providing protocol
 protections that surpass those in all other widely deployed messaging apps to our knowledge pq three
 has the strongest security properties of any at scale messaging protocol in the world well
 so they're proud of their work and they've decided to say that not only will iMessage be using
 an explicitly quantum safe encrypting messaging technology but that theirs is bigger than i mean
 better than anyone else's since so far this appears to be as much a marketing promotion
 as a technical disclosure it's worth noting that they've outlined the four levels of messaging
 security which places them alone at the top of the heap apple is defined four levels of messaging
 with levels zero and one being pre quantum offering no protection from quantum computing breakthroughs
 being able to break their encryption and levels two and three being post quantum level zero is defined
 as no end-to-end encryption by default and they place qq skype telegram and we chat into this level
 zero category now this causes me to be immediately skeptical you know of this as being marketing
 nonsense since although i have never had any respect for telegrams ad hoc basement cryptography
 which they defend not with any sound theory but by offering a reward to anyone who can break it
 we all know that telegram is encrypted and that everyone using it is using it because it's encrypted
 so lumping it into level zero and saying that it's not encrypted by default is at best very
 disingenuous and i think it should be be beneath apple but okay level one are those pre encryption
 algorithms i'm sorry pre quantum because zero and one are both pre quantum you know non quantum
 safe so level one are those pre quantum algorithms that apple says are encrypted by default the
 messaging apps they have placed in level one are line viber whatsapp and the previous signal
 you know before they added post quantum encryption which we covered a few months ago
 and the previous iMessage before it added you know pq3 which actually it hasn't quite added yet
 but it's going to now we move into the quantum safe realm for levels two and three since signal
 beat apple to the quantum safe punch it's sitting all by its lonesome at level two with the sole
 feature of offering post quantum crypto with end-to-end encryption by default presumably as signals
 relatively new pqx dh protocol moves into whatsapp and other messaging platforms based on signals
 open technologies those other messaging apps will also inherit level two status lifting them
 from the lowly levels of zero and one but apple's new pq3 i messaging system adds
 an additional feature that signal lacks which is how apple granted themselves sole dominion
 over level three apple's pq3 adds ongoing post quantum re-keying to its messaging
 which they make a point of noting signal currently lacks
 this blog posting was clearly written by the marketing people so it's freighted with far more
 self-aggrandizing text that would ever be found in a technical cryptographic protocol disclosure
 which this is not but i need to share some of it to set the stage since what apple feels is
 important about pq3 is its attribute of ongoing re-keying so to that end apple reminds us
 quote when i message launched in 2011 it was first widely available it was the first widely
 available messaging app to provide end-to-end encryption by default and we've significantly
 upgraded its cryptography over the years the most recently strengthened i'm sorry we most recently
 strengthened the i message cryptographic protocol in 2019 by switching from RSA to elliptic curve
 cryptography and by protecting encryption keys on device with the secure enclave making them
 significantly harder to extract from a device even for the most sophisticated adversaries
 that protocol update went even further with an additional layer of defense a periodic re key
 mechanism to provide cryptographic self-healing even in the extremely unlikely case that a key
 ever became compromised again extremely unlikely case that a key ever became compromised they
 acknowledge but now they have re-keying so it's possible each of these advances were formally
 verified by symbolic evaluation a best practice that provides strong assurances of the security of
 cryptographic protocols and about all that i agree okay so apple has had on the fly ongoing re-keying
 in i message for some time and it's clear that they're going to be selling this as a differentiator
 for pq3 to distance themselves from the competition after telling us a whole bunch more about how
 wonderful they are they get down to explaining their level system and why they believe pq3 is an
 important differentiator here's what they say and i skipped all the other stuff they said to
 reason through how various messaging applications mitigate attacks it's helpful to place them along
 a spectrum of security properties there's no standard comparison to employ for this purpose
 so we lay out our own simple coarse-grained progression of messaging security levels
 we start with classical cryptography and progress toward quantum security which addresses current
 and future threats from quantum computers most existing messaging apps fall either into level zero
 no end-to-end encryption by default and no quantum security or level one with end-to-end
 encryption by default but no quantum security a few months ago signal added support for the pqxdh
 protocol becoming the first large-scale messaging app to introduce post quantum security in the
 initial key establishment this is a welcome and critical step that by our scale elevated signal
 from low one down there is a lowly from level one to level two security at level two the application
 of post quantum cryptography is limited to the initial key establishment providing quantum security
 only if the conversation key material is never compromised but today's sophisticated adversaries
 already have incentives to compromise encryption keys because doing so gives them the ability to
 decrypt messages protected by those keys for as long as the keys don't change to best protect end-to-end
 encrypted messaging the post quantum keys need to change on an ongoing basis to pro to place an
 upper bound on how much of a conversation can be exposed by any single point in time key compromise
 both now and with future quantum computers therefore we believe messaging protocols
 should go even further and attain level three security where post quantum cryptography is used
 to secure both the initial key establishment and the ongoing message exchange with the ability to
 rapidly and automatically restore the cryptographic security of a conversation even if a given key
 becomes compromised okay it would be very interesting to hear signals rebuttal to this since it's
 entirely possible that this is mostly irrelevant largely irrelevant marketing speak it's not that
 it's not true and that continuous key rotation is not useful we've talked about this in the past
 key rotation gives a cryptographic protocol a highly desirable property known as perfect
 forward secrecy essentially the keys the parties are using to protect their conversation from
 prying eyes are ephemeral a conversation flow is broken up and compartmentalized by the key
 that's in use at the moment but the protocol never allows a single key to be used for long
 the key is periodically changed the reason i'd like to hear a rebuttal from signal
 is that their protocol signals protocol has always featured perfect forward secrecy
 remember axolotl yeah yes which is here's what the same purpose is as keep repeating
 yes it is re-kaying oh here's what wikipedia says i'm quoting from wikipedia in cryptography
 the double ratchet algorithm previously referred to as the axolotl ratchet is a key management
 algorithm that was developed by Trevor Perrin and moxie marlin spike in 2013 oh uh-huh it can be used
 as part of a cryptographic protocol to provide end-to-end encryption for instant messaging
 after an initial key exchange it manages the ongoing renewal and maintenance of short-lived
 session keys it combines a cryptographic so-called ratchet based on the diffi helmet key exchange
 and a ratchet based on a key derivation function such as a hash function and is therefore called
 a double ratchet the algorithm provides forward secrecy for messages and implicit
 renegotiation of forward keys properties for which the protocol is named right in 2013
 in other words it would be nice to hear from signal since apple appears to be suggesting
 that they alone are offering the property of perfect forward secrecy for quantum safe messaging
 when it certainly appears that signal got there 11 years ago this is not to say that having this
 feature in iMessage is not a good thing but appears that apple may not actually be alone
 at pq's level three much as they would like to be that's what steve is so good at those deep
 dives you're just seeing a section of the entire discussion it was more than half an hour on apple's
 pq3 but that's what we love steve right we we get down into the nitty gritty details glad you're here
 happy holidays you're watching our best of 2024 all right now we get into something that was a
 huge topic towards the end of the year microsoft's recall this was steve's first reaction
 50 gigabyte pile of nonsense uh-huh so since we began the podcast with a general theme of how AI
 which is not even close to being intelligent is being misapplied during these early days i feel
 as though a security and privacy-focused podcast like this one ought to take note of the new recall
 feature that will be part of the next generation arm-based windows 11 what's known as co-pilot plus
 laptop pcs first of all yes it does appear that arm processors have finally come far enough along
 to be able to carry the weight of windows on their processors and while having windows on arm will
 certainly create a new array of challenges like for example the lack of specific hardware drivers
 that only exist for intel kernels in the more self-contained applications you know where drivers
 are much less used such as laptops where power consumption and battery life trumps pretty much
 any other consideration it's foreseeable that windows may finally be able to find a home on arm
 today laptop and tablet form factor machines containing Qualcomm snapdragon arm processors
 running windows 11 have been announced and are in some cases available for pre-order from asir
 asus del hp Lenovo microsoft and samsung it's also worth noting that intel pcs will also
 be getting co-pilot plus at some time in the future but they will need to have a neural processing
 engine answering the question what makes co-pilot plus pcs unique microsoft writes co-pilot plus pcs
 are a new class of windows 11 pcs that are powered by a turbocharged neural processing unit
 and an NPU a specialized computer chip for AI intensive uh AI intensive processes like real-time
 translations and image generation that can perform more than 40 trillion operations per second
 so we have tops trillion operations per seconds so more than 40 tops and later microsoft writes
 we are partnering with intel and AMD to bring co-pilot plus pc experiences to pcs with their
 processors in the future so potentially everybody's going to be able to get this okay so what is recall
 microsoft explains they said you can use recall on co-pilot plus pcs to find the content you have
 viewed on your device recall is currently in preview status during this phase we will collect
 customer feedback develop more controls for enterprise customers to managing govern recall
 data and improve the overall experience for users on devices that are not powered by a snap dragon
 x-series processor installation of a windows update will be required to run recall recall
 is currently optimized for select languages including english simplified chinese french
 german japanese and spanish this means recall is able to retrieve snapshots from your pc's timeline
 based on more sophisticated searches in these languages during the preview phase we will enhance
 optimization for additional languages recall can also retrieve snapshots from your pc's timeline
 based on text to text searches in more than 160 languages okay fortunately they then ask
 themselves how does recall work to which they reply recall uses co-pilot plus pc advanced
 processing capabilities to take images of your active screen every few seconds the snapshots
 are encrypted and saved on your pc's hard drive you can use recall to locate the content you have
 viewed on your pc using search or on a timeline bar that allows you to scroll through your snapshots
 once you find the snapshot that you are looking for in recall it will be analyzed and offer you
 options to interact with the content recall will also enable you to open the snapshot
 in the original application in which it was created whoa really okay and as recall is refined over
 time it will open the actual source document website or email in a screenshot
 which okay is mind boggling but they said this functionality will be improved during recalls
 preview phase so before they let it loose they said they said co-pilot plus pc storage size
 determines the number of snapshots that recall can take in store the minimum hard drive space
 needed to run recall is 250 gig and 50 gigabytes of space must be available the default allocation
 for recall on a device with 256 gigabytes will be 25 gig which can store approximately three months
 of snapshots you can increase the storage allocation for recall in your pc settings
 old snapshots will be deleted once you use use up your allocated storage
 allowing new ones to be stored okay so it's sort of a rolling 90 day window the most the most recent
 90 days of screen snapshots taken every few seconds okay then they ask what privacy controls
 does recall offer they respond recall is a key part of what makes co-pilot plus pc special and
 Microsoft built privacy into recalls design from the ground up which of course we all recognize a
 standard boilerplate which we all hope is true they said on co-pilot plus pc's powered by a snap
 drag and x-series processor you will see the recall taskbar icon after you first activate your
 device you can use that icon to open recalls settings and make choices about what snapshots
 recall collects and stores on your device you can limit which snapshots recall collects for example
 you can select specific apps or websites visited in a supported browser to filter out of your snapshots
 in addition you can pause snapshots on demand from the recall icon in the system tray clear
 some are all snapshots that have been stored or delete all the snapshots from your device
 we call that i'm gonna watch porn button now so yeah press the porn button yeah yeah and
 and it occurs to me that i later talk about how a snapshots of of um the windows based signal
 app would be a problem because that's in the clear right right right i mean it's what the user sees
 right maybe this allows you to say don't take snapshots of that window and and we should also
 remember that what we see is a graphic user interface but but windows knows the text behind the the
 actual controls that it's displaying so it doesn't actually have to be i mean i guess it's who knows
 what it's doing in detail but my my point is that while we see graphics there's actual text which is
 being mapped into bit mapped fonts which is then being displayed on the screen so behind the screens
 so to speak microsoft actually has the raw text which was used to generate the screen yeah that
 makes sense okay so um they they said recall also does not take snapshots of certain kinds of content
 including in private web browsing sessions in microsoft edge and by the way they only said edge
 but i saw elsewhere that it's any of the browsers that have a well-defined private browsing mode
 they they they don't they do not uh uh record that and they said it also treats material protected
 under digital rights management you know drm stuff similarly like other windows apps such as the
 the snipping tool recall will not store drm content and they said note that recall does not
 perform content moderation it will not hide information such as passwords or financial account numbers
 that data may be in snapshots that are stored on your device especially when sites do not
 follow standard internet protocols like cloaking password entry okay so we're rolling toward an
 entirely new capability for windows pcs where we'll be able to store data which i presume is somehow
 indexed first then encrypted for storage and later access and unless otherwise instructed and
 proscribed this system is indiscriminately taking snapshots of our pc screen content
 every few seconds and is by microsoft's own admission potentially capturing and saving for later
 retrieval financial account numbers monetary balances contract language proprietary corporate
 memos and communications and who knows what private things we'd really rather never have recorded
 or whatever else the user might assume we'll never go any further this is where our much beloved
 and overworked phrase what could possibly go wrong comes to mind does anyone not imagine
 for an instant that having searchable access to the previous 90 or more days of a pc's screen
 might be hugely interesting to all manner of both legal and illegal investigators corporate
 espionage is a very real thing china is moving their enterprises away from windows as rapidly
 as they can but you have to know that cyber attackers many of the most skillful and persistent
 who seem to be persistently based in china must be besides themselves with delight over this new
 prospect that we decadent capitalists in the west are going to start having our pc's recording
 everything that's displayed on their screens what a great idea if history teaches us anything
 is that we still have not figured out how to keep a secret and especially not microsoft
 so what microsoft is proposing to plant inside all next generation pc's is tantamount to a 50 gigabyte
 privacy bomb maybe it will never go off but it will certainly be sitting there trying to
 and just ask yourself whether law enforcement and intelligence agencies
 don't also think this sounds like a terrific idea oh you betcha with great power comes great
 responsibility and here clearly there's much to go wrong microsoft understands this perception
 and so they ask how is your data protected when using recall they explain recall snap shots
 are kept on co-pilot plus pc's themselves on the local hard disk and are protected using data
 encryption on your device and if you have windows 11 pro or an enterprise windows 11 sku bit locker
 recall screenshots are only linked to a specific user profile and recall does not share them with
 other users make them available for microsoft to view or use them for targeting advertisements
 screenshots are only available to the person whose profile was used to sign into the device
 if two people share a device with different profiles they'll not be able to access each other's
 screenshots if they use the same profile to sign into the device then they will share a screenshot
 history and thus you know be able to scroll back to see what the other person has been doing
 otherwise recall screenshots are not available to other users or access by other applications or
 services okay so all that really means there is they've done the obvious thing right is that they've
 you know they've they've divided the machine in the same way they do currently now you know
 with things like apps that you install for only one profile so okay um that's what microsoft had to
 say the guys from ours technica watched microsoft's presentation of this last monday and gave their
 write-up and impressively factual and neutral headline they said new windows ai feature records
 everything you've done on your pc and then they said recall uses ai features and i've okay to take
 to quote take images of your active screen every few seconds unquote so ours wrote at a build
 conference event on monday microsoft revealed a new ai powered feature called recall for co-pilot
 plus pcs that will allow windows 11 users to search and retrieve their past activities on their pc
 to make it work recall records everything users do on their pc including activities in apps
 communications in live meetings and websites visited for research despite encryption and local
 storage the new feature raises privacy concerns for certain windows users microsoft says on its
 website quote recall uses co-pilot plus pc advanced processing capabilities to take images of your
 active screen every few seconds the snapshots are encrypted and saved on your on your pc's hard drive
 you can read recall to locate the contents you viewed on your pc using search or on a timeline
 bar that allows you to scroll through your snapshots unquote quotes ours technica
 ours wrote by performing a recall action users can access a snapshot from a specific time period
 providing context for the event or moment they're searching for it also allows users to search
 through teleconference meetings they've participated in and videos watched using an ai powered feature
 that transcribes and translates speech at first glance the recall feature seems like it may set
 the stage for potential gross violations of user privacy despite reassert reassurances from
 microsoft that impression persists for second and third glances as well they said for example
 someone with access to your windows account could potentially use recall to see everything
 you've been doing recently on your pc which might extend beyond the embarrassing implications
 of pornography viewing and actually threaten the lives of journalists or perceived enemies of the
 state and i'll interject to say in other words this puts examining someone's web browser history
 to shame how quaint that becomes ours continues despite the privacy concerns microsoft says
 that the recall index remains local and private on device encrypted in a way that is linked
 to a particular users account microsoft says recall screenshots are only linked to specific user
 profile and recall does not share them with other users make them available or microsoft
 to view anyway blah blah blah what i just wrote about that so they said users can pause stop or
 delete captured content and can it can exclude specific apps or websites recall won't take snapshots
 of in-private web browsing sessions and microsoft edge or drm protected content however recall
 won't actively hide sensitive information like passwords and financial account numbers that
 appear on screen microsoft previously explored a somewhat similar functionality with the timeline
 feature in windows 10 which the company discontinued in 2021 but it didn't take continuous snapshots
 recall also shares some obvious similarities to rewind a third party app for mac we covered in 2022
 that logs user activities for later playback they said as you might imagine all this snapshot
 recording comes at a hardware penalty to use recall users will need to purchase one of the new
 co-pilot plus pcs powered by qualcomm snapdragon x elite chips which include the necessary neural
 processing unit there are also minimum storage requirements for running recall with a minimum
 of 256 gig of hard drive space and 50 gig of available space that a fall allocation for recall
 on a 256 gig device is 25 gig which can store approximately three months of snapshots users can
 adjust the allocation in their pc settings as far as availability goes they conclude
 microsoft says that recall is still undergoing testing microsoft says on its website
 recall is currently in preview status during this phase we'll collect customer feedback develop
 more controls for enterprise customers to manage and govern recall data and improve the overall
 experience for users okay i just should note that the amount of storage recall uses does scale upward
 with the size of the system's mass storage and presumably the duration of the scroll back
 increases similarly it'll take 25 gigs when 256 is available 75 gigabytes on a 512 gig drive
 and 150 gigabytes from a system with a one terabyte drive of primary mass storage so presumably
 the more storage the system is able to commandeer the the further it's possible to scroll back
 through the system's display history okay now while while trying to be objective about this
 the first question that leaps into the foreground for me is whether anyone actually needs or wants
 this this is a big you know what i mean is this a big previously unappreciated problem that everyone
 has okay but trying to be objective first of all compared to the static contents of a hard drive
 recall would would be objectively a goldmine of additional new information about the past 90
 plus days of someone's life as viewed through their computer activities and more than ever before
 people's entire lives and their private lives are reflected in what's shown on the screens of
 their computers maybe that makes scrolling back through their recorded lives compelling i don't know
 but we know from microsoft that it will be snapping video conference content on the fly
 the wind and as i mentioned the windows signal app that goes to extremes to protect the contents
 of its chats would presumably be captured unless you're able as i mentioned before and they sort
 of suggest you can tell recall don't record specific applications so you probably want to turn that off
 or maybe you trust microsoft and it'll be part of your scroll back um but you know email screams
 and nearly everything that happens on a pc would be captured and of course that's the point right
 but the vast majority of that content will not have been stored on the machine's hard drive
 ever until now so objectively the presence of recall clearly introduces a new never before
 existing liability and that's what everyone who talks about this sees as a potential for creating
 havoc were non-existed before so the question it seems to me is whether the new value that's created
 and is returned by recalls scrolling usage history justifies whatever new risk might also be created
 by its retention of that data how useful will having all that actually be i've tried to imagine
 an instance where i wish i could look back in time at my computer screen i suppose i don't feel the
 need since i've never had the option so if i knew i could scroll my computer screens back in time
 i suppose it might be an interesting curiosity but it really doesn't feel like a feature i've been
 needing and missing until now i suppose an analogy would be that the world had no idea what it was
 missing before the creation of social media and hasn't that been a big boon to mankind
 now unfortunately we seem unable to live without it perhaps this will be the same the bottom line is
 i think we're just going to need to live with this thing for a while we're going to need to see
 whether this is a capability desperately searching for a need or whether once people get used to
 having this new thing they start thinking how did i ever live without this however one thing that is
 also absolutely objectively true is that everyone will be carrying around a 50 gigabyte privacy
 bomb that they never had before maybe it'll be worth the risk only time will tell oh and simon
 zerafa posted a tweet from someone who has been poking into recalls storage uh he's detective at
 mastodon dot social who wrote can confirm that recall data is indeed stored in a sequel light
 three database the folder it's in is fully accessible only by system and the administrators group
 attempting to access it as a normal user yields the usual you don't have you don't currently have
 permission error and he said here's how the database is laid out for those curious and he
 said figured you might appreciate a few screenshots so i put one in the show notes and sure enough
 it's got a db browser for a sequel light and shows the layout of the table with all of the the
 various components you know window capture text index content window capture text index data
 window text doc size and relations and all kinds of stuff so anyway i you know i i guess what this
 means is that if nothing else if that data should ever escape from anyone's pc it will not be difficult
 for anybody who gets it to open it up and browse around in it because it's just a a sequel light
 three database and leo you know i i guess you know if if you if you if search really worked
 and you were able to search on something that you remember but you didn't write down or didn't
 record didn't save but it was just like right there at your fingertips and bang it popped up
 and showed it to you uh i guess i could see that that could be compelling
 we spent a lot more time talking about recall throughout the year and i have a feeling we're
 not done in 2025 there's going to be a lot more you're watching the best of 2024 with Steve Gibson's
 security now so glad you're here on we go let's talk about what it was probably well it's hard to
 pick one of the biggest let's say that security nightmares certainly kept a lot of it professionals
 up all weekend so i start this on in the show notes with a picture from a listener
 this shows the blue screens of death at the deserted delta terminal of the Seattle Tacoma
 airport yeah which was taken friday morning by a listener who has been listening since episode one
 and we see three screens it looks like maybe there's someone back in the distance there sort of behind
 one of the screens facing away from us but otherwise there's nobody in line uh there's an empty wheelchair
 four thousand flights canceled four thousand flights canceled that's mine for adult alone
 by the way paul thorat being a little bit uh of a pedant says that's not the blue screen of death
 that's a recovery screen but you know what it's a blue screen of death it's a blue screen
 okay paul point taken so it's fortunate that uh grc's incoming email system
 was already in place and ready for this crowds drive event you cut the mail oh did i and i'm
 gonna share some right from the from firsthand accounts from the field because it enabled a
 number of our listeners to immediately write last week to send some interesting and insightful
 feedback a lot of our listeners are very sore feet going from machine to machine all weekend holy
 cow in one case twenty thousand workstations oh oh oh and these people don't hang out on twitter so
 email was the right medium for them ryan tillman wrote okay i can't wait to hear your comments next
 week about the current cloud outages happening today my wife went to a medical lab this morning
 for a blood test and was turned away because the facility cannot access its data storage wow
 another listener wrote good morning i'm new to this group only been i love i love this i'm new
 to this group only been listening for the last eight years oh newbie yeah that's right you're gonna
 have to go back and catch up my friend he says i'm sure crowd strike will be part of next week's
 topics uh-huh he said i would love to hear your take on what and how this happened i'm still up
 from yesterday fixing our servers and end users computers i work for a large hospital in central
 california and this has just devastated us we have fixed hundreds of our critical servers
 by removing the latest file pushed by crowd strike and are slowly restoring services
 back to our end users and community thank you for all you do keeping us informed and
 educated of issues like this looking forward to 999 and beyond oh i like thank a bear new slogan
 999 and beyond i like it that's it tom jenkins posted to grc's news group crowd strike is a zero
 day defense software so delaying updates puts the network at risk i don't know how they managed to
 release this update with no one testing it seems obvious at this point even casual testing
 should have shown issues and of course tom raises the billion dollar and it probably exaggerating
 the billion dollar question how could this have happened i will be spending some time on that in
 a few minutes but i want to first paint some pictures of what our listeners experienced first
 hand tom's posting finished with we had over 100 servers and about 500 workstations offline
 in this event and recovery was painful their fix required the stations to be up unfortunately
 the bad ones were in a boot loop that for recovery required manual entry of individual machine
 bitlocker keys to apply the fix and of course that was often a problem because machines that were
 protected by bitlocker needed to have the recovery keys present in order for them to be for for their
 um maintainers to be able to get to the file system even after being booted into safe mode
 because safe mode's not a workaround for bitlocker shamus um uh marinon who works for a major
 corporation which he asked me to keep anonymous although i asked for permission he told me who it is
 but asked for anonymity there he said for us the issue started at about 12 45 a.m. eastern time
 we were responding to the issue and let get a load of this response and and the way his team
 operated so the issue started for him at 12 45 a.m. eastern time he said we were responding to the
 issue by 12 55 10 minutes later and had confirmed by 105 a.m. that it was a global level event and
 communicated that we thought it was related to crowd strike we mobilized our team and had extra
 resources on site by 130 a.m. so 25 minutes later the order of recovery we followed were the servers
 production systems our virtual environment and finally the individual pcs in all there were about
 500 individually affected systems across a 1500 acre campus we were able to get to 95
 percent recovery before our normal office hour started and we were back to normal by 10 a.m.
 okay now i am quite impressed by the performance of of shamus's team to be back up and running
 by 10 a.m. the day of it's amazing after 500 machines were taken down across a 1500 acre
 campus taken down in the middle of the night is truly impressive and i would imagine that
 whomever his team reports to is likely aware that they had a world-class response to a global scale
 event since for example another of our listeners in arizona was walking his dog in a mall because
 it's too hot to walk pets outside during the day in arizona he took and sent photos of the sign
 on dicks sporting goods the following day on saturday stating that they were closed
 due to a data outage so it took you know many other companies much longer to recover
 a listener named mark hull shared this he said steve thanks for all you do for the security
 community i'm a proud spin right owner and a bit an it consultant since the days of doss three
 and netwear two point x wow he said uh-huh is that i do a lot of work in enterprise security
 have managed crowd strike write code and do lots of work with sccm he says paren's m s
 end point management as well as custom automation so i feel i have a good viewpoint on the crowd
 strike disaster he says crowd strike is designed to prevent malware and by doing so provide high
 availability to all our servers and endpoints the fact that their software may be responsible for
 one of the largest global outages is completely unacceptable as you have said many times mistakes
 happen but this kind of issue represents a global company's complete lack of procedures
 policies and design that could easily prevent such a thing from happening now of course this is
 you know what what do they call it something quarterbacking yeah Monday night in quarterback
 yeah okay right 2020 hindsight yeah and i do have some explanations for this which we'll get to
 anyway he said given the crowd strike is continually updated to help defend against and i should just
 say no no one's disagreeing with him and you know congress will be finding out before long you know
 what happened here but he said given the crowd strike is continually updated to help defend
 against an ever-changing list of attacks the concept of protecting their customers from exactly
 this type of issue should be core to their design working in automation the rule is that you always
 have a pilot group to send out software before you send it to everyone he says i worked with
 organizations with easily over 100 000 users if you don't follow these rules you eventually
 live with the impact in the old days companies would have a testing lab of all kinds of different
 hardware and os builds where they could test before sending anything out to production
 this would have easily caught the issue he says now it seems the corporations have eliminated this
 idea since this is not a revenue generating entity they should research opportunity cost
 he says with the onset of virtualization i would argue the cost of this approach continues
 to decrease and again we're at this point this is speculation because we don't understand
 how this happened but he says since it appears this was not being done another software design
 approach would be to trickle out the update then have the code report back metrics from the machines
 that received the update at some set interval for instance every five 10 30 minutes the endpoints
 could send a few packets with some minor reporting details such as CPU utilization
 disc utilization memory utilization then if crowd strike pushed an update and the first thousand
 machines never reported back after five minutes there would be some automated process to suspend
 that update and send emails out to the testing team in the case of endpoints that check back
 every 10 minutes you could set a counter and blah blah blah anyway he goes on to explain you know
 the sorts of the sorts of things that make sense for means of preventing this from happening and
 yes i agree with him completely from a from a theoretical standpoint there are all kinds of
 ways to to prevent this um and again as i said we'll wrap up by by looking at some of that in detail
 Samuel Gordon Stewart in can bear australia wrote he said here in australia it was mid-afternoon
 on a friday most broadcast media suffered major outages limiting their ability to broadcast news
 or anything else for that matter sky news australia had to resort to taking a feed of fox news as they
 couldn't even operate the studio lights they eventually got back on air with a limited capacity
 from a small control room in parliament house the national government funded broadcaster ABC had
 to run national news instead of their usual state-based news services and couldn't pay any pre-play any
 pre-recorded content so reporters had to read their reports live to camera a lot of radio stations
 were still unable to broadcast even friday night supermarkets had their registers go down one of
 the big supermarkets near me had half their registers offline a department store nearby
 had only one register working train services were halted as the radio systems were all computerized
 airports ground to a halt half a dozen banks went offline telecommunication companies had outages
 many hospitals reverted to paper forms a lot of state government systems seem to be affected
 but the federal government seem less impacted and who knows how long it will take for it departments
 to be able to physically access pcs which won't boot so they can implement the fix as you would
 say steve about allowing a third party unilaterally updating kernel drivers worldwide whenever they
 want what could possibly go wrong after i thanked samuel for his note he replied with a bit more
 writing in my own workplace we're offline until monday i think we got lucky because our network
 gateway was the first to take the update and failed before anything else had a chance
 to receive the update so it took them offline but fortunately it stopped the update for everybody
 else yeah that's good i like it nothing will get fixed until the head office looks at it but i
 think they'll be pleasantly surprised that only a couple of devices need fixing and not dozens or
 more not my problem or role these days although i did foolishly volunteer to help good man
 and i saw the following on my amazon app on my iphone it said i got a little pop up that said
 a small number of deliveries may arrive a day later than anticipated
 due to a third party technology outage yeah yep meanwhile in the u.s almost all airlines were grounded
 with all their flights canceled one however was apparently flying the friendly skies all by itself
 before you repeat this story it's been debunked i'm not surprised yeah it didn't seem possible
 yeah yes digital trends reported under the headline a windows version from 1992 is saving
 southwests but right now anyway yeah southwest got saved because they didn't use crowd strike is
 how they got saved not because they were using windows 3-1 there exactly there are there are
 companies all over the world who are not crowd strike users exactly and it was exactly and so
 it was only those who have this c_s_ agent dot sis device driver loading at boot time in their
 kernel that had this problem yeah yeah so and and i i think that this was made more fun of because
 in the past remember that um uh the southwest airlines has come under fire for having outdated
 systems right yes but not with not that like yes they had scheduling systems they hadn't updated
 for a long time yeah it's an interesting story and somebody uh unmasted on kind of
 went through it and it really is if this happens a lot in journalism nowadays
 somebody tweeted that the southwest scheduling software looked like it was windows 95 it wasn't
 but looked that way it got picked up and like telephone it got elaborated to the point where
 uh digit trends and a number of other outlets and including i might add myself
 uh reported this story uh and then we found out it was you know southwest and confirmed it yeah
 and really i mean even i'm having problems today on windows 7 because you know increasingly things
 are saying what are you thinking gibson like what is wrong with you so i yeah you have to really
 really work hard to keep 3-1 up and running i think yeah so i was initially going to share
 a bunch of tech crunches coverage but then yesterday uh cattlein uh simpenu the editor of
 the risky business newsletter produced such a perfect summary of this event um that only one
 important point that tech crunch raised made it later in today's podcast um which i'll get to
 in a in in a minute but first here's cattlein's summary which was just it's perfect he so he writes
 around 8.5 million windows systems went down on friday in one of the worst it outages in history
 the incident was caused by a faulty configuration update to the crowd strike falcon security software
 that caused windows computers to crash with a blue screen of death ball we realize that's
 not what it is thank you since crowd strike falcon is an enterprise centric edr the incident caused
 crucial it systems to go down in all the places you don't usually want them to go down outages
 were reported in places like airports hospitals banks energy grids news organizations and loads
 of official government agencies planes were grounded across several countries 9/11 emergency
 systems went down hospitals canceled medical procedures atms went offline stock trading stopped
 buses and trains were delayed ships got stuck in ports border and customs checks stopped windows
 based online services went down really says for example i can and there's even an unconfirmed
 report that one nuclear facility was affected the mercedes f1 team where crowd strike is a main
 sponsor had to deal with the aftermath hindering engineers from preparing the carts for the upcoming
 Hungarian GP heck he wrote even russia had to deal with some outages whoops i guess they're not quite
 windows free yet over there he says it was a cluster you know what on so many levels that it
 is hard to put into words how much of the world was upended on friday with some outages extending
 into the weekend reddit is full of horror stories where admins lost their jobs faced legal threats
 or were forced to sleep at their workplace to help restore networks there are reports of companies
 having tens of thousands of systems affected by the update the recovery steps aren't a walk in the
 park either it's not like crowd strike or microsoft could have shipped a new update and fixed things
 in the span of of a few minutes instead users had to boot windows into safe mode and search and
 delete a very specific file the recovery cannot be fully or remotely automated and an operator must
 go through the process on each affected system microsoft has also released a recovery tool which
 creates a bootable usb drive that it admins can use to more quickly recover impacted machines
 but an operator still needs to be in front of an of an affected device for some super lucky users
 the bsod error corrected itself just by constantly rebooting affected systems apparently some systems
 were able to gain short enough access to networking capabilities to download the fixed crowd strike
 update file and overwrite the old buggy one however this is not the universal recommended fix there
 are people reporting that they manage to fix their systems after three reboots while others needed
 tens of reboots it took hours for the debug information to make its way downstream meaning
 some of the world's largest companies had to bring their businesses to a halt losing probably billions
 in the process and he said extremely rough estimation but probably in the correct range
 he writes unfortunately the internet is also full of idiots willing to share their dumb opinions
 in the year of the lord 2024 we had people argue that it's time to ditch security products
 since they can cause this type of outage oh yes that's the solution i roll
 but crowd strikes blunder is not unique or new for that matter something similar impacted
 loads of other vendors before from panda security to casper ski and mackafee ironically
 crowd strikes founder and ceo george kurtz was mackafee's cto at the time but don't go spinning
 consider conspiracy theories about it it doesn't actually mean that much he writes stuff like this
 tends to happen and quite a lot as an info sec reporter i stopped covering these antivirus update
 blunders after my first or second year because there were so many and the articles were just
 repetitive most impact only a small subset of users typically on a particular platform or
 hardware specification they usually had the same devastating impact causing bsod errors
 and crashing systems because the nature of security software itself which needs to run
 inside the operating system kernel so it can tap into everything that happens on a pc
 crowd strike receipt released an initial post mortem report of the faulty update on saturday
 it blamed the issue on what the company calls a channel file update which are special files that
 update the falcon endpoint detection and response that's edr that's what edr stands for client
 with new techniques abused by threat actors in this case it was channel file 291 and then he gives
 us you know the the full file name c hyphen zero zero zero zero zero two nine one and then something
 you know star dot sis that causes the crashes crowd strike says this file is supposed to update
 the falcon edr to detect malware that abuses windows named pipes to communicate with its command
 and control server such techniques were recently added to several c2 frameworks tools used by threat
 actors and penetration testing teams and crowd strike wanted to be on top of the new technique
 the company says the falcon update file unfortunately yeah unfortunately triggered a logic error
 since falcon ran in the windows kernel the error brought down the house and caused windows to crash
 with a bsod after that it was just a house of cards as the update was delivered to more and more
 crowd strike crusted customers the domino started falling all over the world curts was the CEO
 was adamant on friday that this was just an error on the company's part and made it explicitly clear
 that there was no cyber attack against its systems u.s. government officials also echoed the same
 thing for now crowd strike seems to be focused on bringing its customers back online the incident
 is likely to have some major repercussions going beyond the actual technical details and the global
 outages what they will be i cannot be sure he writes but i smell some politicians waiting to
 pounce on it with some ideas he says in quotes oh great this might also be the perfect opportunity
 a slash excuse for microsoft to go with apples route and kick most security vendors and drivers
 out of the kernel but before that microsoft might need to convince the EU to dismiss a 2009 agreement
 first per this agreement microsoft cannot wall off its o s from third party security tools the EU and
 microsoft reached this arrangement following an anti-competitive complaint filed by security software
 vendors after microsoft entered the cybersecurity and av market with defender with vendors fearing
 microsoft would use its control over windows to put everyone out of business by neutering their products
 doesn't this sound like oh sorry we can't cancel third party cookies because some people are making
 money with them right he writes after the recent chinese and russian hacks of microsoft cloud
 infrastructure we now know very well what happens when microsoft has a dominant market position and
 it's never a good thing so the existence of this agreement isn't such a bad idea if microsoft wants
 to kick security software out of the kernel defender needs to lose it too unfortunately
 blinding security tools to the kernel now puts everyone in the ios quandary where everyone
 loses visibility into what happens on a system that's not such a good idea either so we're back
 with this argument where we started in closing just be aware that threat actors are registering
 hundreds of crowd strike related domains that will most likely be used in spear fishing
 and malware delivery campaigns they're so evil it's honestly one of the best and easiest fishing
 opportunities we've had in a while so as suggested by this week's picture of the week which shows
 the windows kernel crash dump resulting from crowd strikes detection file update i will be
 getting down to the nitty gritty details that underlie exactly what happened but i want to
 first finish laying out the entire story the part of tech crunches coverage that i wanted to include
 was they're writing this crowd strike founded in 2011 has quickly grown into a cyber security
 giant today the company provides software and services to 29 000 corporate customers including
 around half of fortune 500 companies 43 out of 50 us states wow eight out of the top 10 tech firms
 according to its website the company's cyber security software falcon is used by enterprises
 to manage security on millions of computers around the world and now we know exactly how many
 millions these businesses include large corporations hospitals transportation hubs and government
 departments most consumer devices do not run falcon and are unaffected by this outage and here
 was with that lead up this was the point one of the company's biggest recent claims to fame
 was when it caught a group of russian government hackers breaking into the democratic national
 committee ahead of the 2016 us presidential election crowd strike is also known for using
 memorable animal themed names for the hacking groups it tracks based on their nationality
 such as fancy bear that's where that came from oh believe to be part of russia's general staff
 main intelligence directorate or g r u cozy bear believed to be part of russia's foreign intelligence
 service or s vr gothic panda believed to be a chinese government group and charming kitten
 believed to be an iranian state-backed group the company even makes action figures to represent
 these groups i want which it sells as swag oh cool crowd strike is so big it's one of the sponsors
 of the mercedes f1 team and this year even aired a super bowl ad a first for a cyber security company
 and they were also one of the first cyber security companies to advertise on this show steve
 uh fact we interviewed the ct o uh some time ago and it was it's an impressive company i
 you know i i'm very curious to hear what happened here so as i have here written i have not counted
 the number of times this podcast has mentioned crowd strike it's certainly been so many times
 that their name will be from quite familiar to everyone who's been listening for more than a
 short while and not one of those previous mentions was due to some horrible catastrophe they caused
 no as the rider for tech crunch reminds us crowd strike has been quite instrumental
 in detecting tracking and uncovering some of today's most recent and pernicious malware campaigns
 and the threat actor groups behind them how are they able to do this it is entirely due
 to exactly this same falcon sensor instrumentation system right that's been spread far and wide
 around the world it's this sensor network that gives them the visibility into what those 8.5
 million machines that have been running it are encountering day to day in the field exactly and
 we need that visibility yeah by the way here is the here's the aquatic panda figurine for only
 twenty eight dollars on the crowd strike swag shop wow you got to be really deep into like
 whatever wow obviously we spent a lot of time talking about this crowd strike incident in fact
 the conversation goes on for another 40 minutes you can go back in time if you want to episode
 nine eight four and watch more in fact everything you're seeing here really is a small portion of
 of the larger topics Steve delves into every Tuesday on our network I hope you're enjoying it
 and I always encourage you if you want to know more to go back to the original episode because
 usually discussions are very very elaborate happy happy holidays you're watching security now the
 best of 2024 on we go with the show into what was something that Steve said would never happen
 a one thousandth episode I wanted to say as we conclude this one thousandth episode of security
 now that providing this weekly podcast with Leo has been and I'm sure shall continue to be
 my sincere pleasure as I've said before I'm both humbled by and proud of the incredible
 listenership this podcast has developed over the years it has been one of the major features of my
 life and I'm so glad that you Leo thought to ask me 20 years ago whether I might be interested in
 spending around 20 minutes a week to discuss various topics of internet security just look
 what happened oh my goodness so thank you Leo for making this possible thank you Steve I didn't
 see where the next thousand will take I just provided you with the platform and you took it
 from there it's been really amazing our web engineer Patrick Delahandy posted some statistics
 about the show he said the shortest show we ever did do you remember this we did it like an extra
 thing that was three minutes I think it was like an update of some kind I can't remember why but
 we had to do an update for some reason so I guess that will always be the shortest show or that there
 wasn't a whole lot in it I'm like I'm trying to scroll back and see if I can find his post and
 then he said the longest one we did I think was close to three hours was two hours of 57 minutes
 wow yeah I didn't know that we actually I thought that week or two ago was that that was two and a
 half hours and I thought that one was the well there's always the outliers you keep it to two
 hours pretty nice I think that's a target I think that's a reasonable time we've got a couple
 listeners who complain I I don't have two hours to spend is like well okay so listen to the whole
 thing then yeah nobody's making you it's not like you have to my attitude's always been give people
 usually you know you're supposed to give them less than they want and in my attitude towards
 podcasting is as long as it's longer than your commute that's you don't want it to end halfway
 to work and we know how people feel about those youtube shorts we don't want to be there you know
 we don't want to be shorts ah ah no we're longs yeah I in the early days of twit I tried to keep
 everything under 70 minutes because people were burning the shows to CDs and that was the maximum
 length of a CD right yep I don't worry about that anymore that's you probably know I think we are now
 on almost all of our shows push two hours is the shortest that I do almost all of them are
 two and a half to three hours so you you actually have the honor of hosting our shortest show my
 congratulations and dare I say most focused yeah very focused and we love that it is easily
 the geekiest show we do and I say that proudly I think that we you know
 we try to serve a broadish audience because I don't want people to say oh I don't understand
 anything he ever talks about but at the same time we also want to serve the hardcore
 person who really gets this and really wants to know deeply what's going on well and we do have
 listeners who write and say well I think I understand about 15% of what you guys talk about but I like
 it I don't yeah I'm not sure what it is but it you know it makes me feel good and I always get a
 little something it's like yeah great yeah that's okay too I mean I often thought of what we do is
 aspirational I was there's a good documentary about Martha Stewart on Netflix right now it's
 actually fascinating I would watch it even if you're not interested Martha Stewart but
 people said about her and her magazine nobody can live that way nobody can be that perfect you're
 setting too high a bar she says it's aspirational everybody might want beauty in their life and want
 to be able to have that everybody wants to understand what's going on in the world of technology
 and if you don't understand at all you will just keep listening right yep Steve it has been
 my great honor to know you and work with you for more than 30 years I can't believe it's been 30
 years it doesn't feel at all and that's the good news yeah because you know we're only at a thousand
 yeah we look we're gonna keep doing this as long as we can but I am so honored and thrilled that
 you were willing to do this way back then and continue to do it I know it's a lot of work don't
 I'm very aware how much work you put it's a lot of work but I'm happy to do it yeah here's Patrick
 Delahanty's note I found it the shortest episode of security now was 42 minutes four minutes and 12
 seconds that's this one security now 103 SE vote for Steve do you remember that that was you were
 trying to win the podcast oh right right the podcast award and I think you did didn't you
 we went we won the first several years the podcast award yeah yeah well and rightly so
 and then the longest episode and I have the receipts to prove it three hours and 57 seconds but it
 was a best of so you don't have to take credit for that ah thank goodness I can't imagine I would
 have participated in that I would have been on the floor yeah well the reason was there were so
 many good sections segments in 2018 we couldn't do less than three hours that's neat yeah so that's
 that's good that's fair I think that's okay Steve thank you from the bottom my heart for continuing
 on I would have been bereft sitting here on this Tuesday afternoon without a security now and I
 know I'm not alone on that so well thank you for all the work you so much work every week there's no
 end in sight they used to be saying our listeners were saying to 999 and beyond now I think it's
 going to be to 19999 how about 999 how long would that take 200 years yeah I'm feeling great but
 all I said I do I do believe in a rational universe well but wait maybe we're laughing now but somebody
 in the future we're listening to AI Steve that's true and episode 10 thousand I'm sure you could dump
 all the transcripts into an AI and say okay give me the last week's news as Steve would present it
 exactly I should note that I already have everything I need with thanks to today's chat GPT 4.0 and it
 has changed my life for for the better I've been using it increasingly as a time saver in sort of
 in the form of a programming language super search engine and and even a syntax checker
 I've used it sort of as a crutch when I need to quickly write some throwaway code in a language
 like PHP where I do not have expertise but I want to get something done quickly I just you know I'd
 like you know get solve a quick problem you know parse a text file in a certain way into a different
 format that sort of thing in the past I would take you know if it was a somewhat bigger project than
 that an hour or two putting queries into Google following links to programmers corner stack overflow
 or other similar sites and I would piece together the language construction that I needed from other
 similar bits of code that I would find online or if I was unable to find anything useful like you
 know solve the problem I would then dig deeper in through the languages actual reference texts
 to find the usage in the syntax that I needed and then build up from that you know because you know
 after you've programmed a bunch of languages they're all sort of the same largely I mean
 Lisp is a different animal entirely as is APL but but you know the the procedural languages
 it's just a matter of like okay what do I use for inequality what do I use for you know how exactly
 are the looping constructs built that kind of thing that's no longer what I do because I now
 have access to a what I consider a super programming language search engine now I ask the experimental
 coding version of chat GPT for whatever it is I need I don't ask it to provide the complete
 program since that's really not what I want you know I love coding in any language because I love
 puzzles and puzzles are language agnostic but I do not equally know the details of every other
 language there you know there's nothing chat GPT can tell me about programming assembly language
 that I have not already known for decades but if I want to write a quick throw away utility program
 like in visual basic.net a language that I've spent very little time with and because I like
 to write an assembly language you know but I need to for example quickly implement an associative
 array as I did last week rather than poking around the internet or scanning through the
 visual basic syntax to find what I'm looking for I'll now just pose the question to chat GPT
 I'll ask it very specifically and carefully for what I want and in about two seconds I'll get what
 I may have previously spent 30 to 60 minutes sussing out online it has transformed my work path for
 those sorts of for that class of problem that that I've traditionally had it's useful whenever I need
 some details where I do not have expertise is that I think the way I would put it and I've seen
 plenty of criticism levied by other programmers of the code produced by today's AI to me it seems
 misplaced that is their criticism seems misplaced and maybe just a bit nervous and maybe they're
 also asking the wrong question I don't ask chat GPT for a finished product because I know exactly
 what I want and I'm not even sure I could specify the finished product in words or that that's what
 it's really good for so I ask it just for specific bits and pieces and I have to report that the
 results have been fantastic I mean it is literally it's the way I will I will now code languages I
 don't know I think is probably the best way to put it it it is you know it's ingested the internet
 and and you know obviously we have to use the term it knowing them very advisedly it doesn't
 know them but whatever it is I am able to like ask it a question and I actually get like really
 good answers to to to tight problem domain questions okay but what I want to explore today is what
 lies beyond what we have today what the challenges are and what predictions are being made about how
 and when we may get more whatever that more is you know the the there where we want to get is
 generically known as artificial general intelligence which is abbreviated AGI okay so let's start by
 looking at how Wikipedia defines this goal Wikipedia says artificial general intelligence
 is a type of artificial intelligence that matches or surpasses human cognitive capabilities across
 a wide range of cognitive tasks this contrasts with narrow AI which is limited to specific tasks
 artificial super intelligence ASI on the other hand refers to AGI that greatly exceeds human
 cognitive capabilities AGI is considered one of the definitions of strong AI they say creating AGI
 is a primary goal of AI research and of companies such as open AI and meta a 2020 survey identified
 72 active AGI research and development projects across 37 countries the timeline for achieving AGI
 remains a subject of ongoing debate among researchers and experts as of 2023 some argue that it may be
 possible in years or decades others maintain it might take a century or longer and a minority
 believe it may never be achieved notable AI researcher Jeffrey Hinton has expressed concerns
 about the rapid progress toward AGI suggesting it could be achieved sooner than many expect there's
 debate on the exact definition of AGI and regarding whether modern large language models LLMs such as
 chat such as GPT four are early forms of AGI contention exists over whether AGI represents an
 existential risk many experts on AI have stated that mitigating the risk of human extinction
 posed by AGI should be a global priority others find the development of AGI to be too remote
 to present such a risk AGI is also known as strong AI full AI human level AI or general
 intelligent action however some academic sources reserve the term strong AI for computer programs
 that experience sentience or consciousness in contrast weak AI or narrow AI is able to solve
 one specific problem but lacks general cognitive abilities some academic sources use weak AI
 as the term to refer more broadly to any programs that neither experience consciousness nor have a
 mind in the same sense as humans related concepts include artificial super intelligence and transformative
 AI an artificial super intelligence is a hypothetical type of AGI that is much more generally intelligent
 than humans while the notion of transformative AI relates to AI having a large impact on society
 thus transforming it for example similar to the agricultural or industrial revolutions a framework
 for classifying AGI levels was proposed in 2023 with google deep mind researchers or by google
 deep mind researchers they define five levels of AGI emerging competent expert virtuoso and superhuman
 they define for example a competent AGI is defined as an AGI that outperforms 50% of skilled adults
 in a wide range of non physical tasks and a superhuman AGI in other words an artificial
 super intelligence is similarly defined but with a threshold of 100% they consider large language
 models like chat GPT or llama to to be instances of the first level emerging AGI okay so we're
 getting some useful language and terminology for talking about these things the article that
 caught my eye last week as we were celebrating the thousandth episode of this podcast was posted on
 perplexity AI titled Altman predicts AGI by 2025 the perplexity piece turned out not to have much
 meat but it did offer the kernel of some interesting thoughts and some additional terminology and
 talking points so I still want to share it perplexity wrote open AI CEO Sam Altman has stirred the tech
 community with his prediction that artificial general intelligence AGI could be realized by 2025
 a timeline that contrasts sharply with many experts who foresee AGI's arrival much later
 despite skepticism Altman asserts that open AI is on track to achieve this ambitious goal
 emphasizing ongoing achievements and substantial funding while also suggesting that the initial
 societal impact of AGI might be minimal in a Y combinator interview Altman expressed excitement
 about the potential developments in AGI for the coming year however he also made a surprising claim
 that the advent of AGI would have surprisingly little impact on society at least initially
 this statement has sparked debate among AI experts and enthusiasts given the potentially
 transformative nature of AGI an Altman's optimistic timeline stands in stark contrast to many other
 experts in the field who typically project AGI development to occur much later around 2050
 despite the skepticism Altman maintains that open AI is actively pursuing this ambitious goal even
 suggesting that it might be possible to achieve AGI with current hardware this confidence coupled
 with open AI's recent 6.6 billion funding round and its market valuation exceeding 157 billion dollars
 underscores the company's commitment to pushing the boundaries of AI technology
 achieving artificial general intelligence faces several significant technical challenges that extend
 beyond current AI capabilities so here we have four bullet points that outline where where
 what AGI needs that there's no sign of today first common sense reasoning AGI systems must
 develop intuitive understanding of the world including implicit knowledge and unspoken rules
 to navigate complex social situations and make everyday judgments number two context awareness AGI
 needs to dynamically adjust behavior and interpretations based on situational factors environment
 and prior experiences third handling uncertainty AGI must interpret incomplete or ambiguous data
 draw inferences from limited information and make sound decisions in the face of the unknown
 and fourth continual learning developing AGI systems that can update their knowledge
 and capabilities over time without losing previously acquired skills remains a significant challenge
 so one thing that occurs to me as I read those four points reasoning contextual and awareness
 uncertainty and learning is that none of the AIs I've ever interacted with has ever asked
 for any clarification about what I'm asking that's not something that appears to be wired into the
 current generation of AI I'm sure it could be simulated you know if it would further raise
 the stock price of the company doing it but it wouldn't really matter right because it would be a
 faked question like that very old Eliza pseudo therapist program from the 70s you know you you
 you would type into it I'm feeling sort of cranky today and it would reply why do you think you're
 feeling sort of cranky today you know it wasn't really asking a question it was just programmed
 to seem like it was you know understanding what we were typing in the point I hope to make is that
 there's a hollowness to today's AI you know it's truly an amazing search engine technology
 but it doesn't seem to be much more than that to me there's no there's no presence or understanding
 behind its answers the perplexity article continues saying overcoming these hurdles requires advancements
 in areas such as neural network architectures reinforcement learning and transfer learning
 additionally AGI development demands substantial computational resources and interdisciplinary
 collaboration among experts in computer science neuroscience and cognitive psychology while some
 AI leaders like Sam Altman predict AGI by 2025 many experts remain skeptical of such an accelerated
 timeline a 2022 survey of 352 AI experts found that the median estimate for AGI development was
 around 2060 also known as security now episode 2860 90 percent of the 352 experts surveyed
 expect to see AGI within 100 years 90 percent expected so not to take longer than 100 years
 but the median is is by 2060 so you know not next year as Sam suggests they wrote this more
 conservative outlet stems from several key challenges first the missing ingredient problem
 some researchers argue that current AI systems while impressive lack fundamental components
 necessary for general intelligence statistical learning alone may not be sufficient to achieve
 AGI again the missing ingredient problem I think that sounds exactly right also training
 limitations creating virtual environments complex enough to train an AGI system to navigate the real
 world including human deception presents significant hurdles and third scaling challenges despite
 advancements in large language models some reports suggest diminishing returns in improvement rates
 between generations these factors contribute to a to a more cautious view among many AI researchers
 who believe AGI development will likely take decades rather than years to achieve open AI has
 recently achieved significant milestones in both technological advancement and financial growth
 the company successfully closed and here they're they're saying again a massive 6.6 billion funding
 round valuing at 157 billion dollars but you know who cares that's just you know Sam is a good salesman
 they said this round attracted investments from major players like Microsoft and Vidya and Softbank
 highlighting the tech industry's confidence in open AI's potential the company's flagship
 product chat GPT has seen exponential growth now boasting over 250 million weekly active users
 and you count me among them open AI is also made substantial inroads into the corporate sector
 with 92 percent of Fortune 500 companies reportedly using its technologies despite these successes
 open AI faces challenges including high operational costs and the need for extensive computing power
 the company is projected to incur losses of about five billion dollars this year primarily due to
 the expenses associated with training and operating its large language models so when
 when I was thinking about this idea of you know we're just going to throw all this money at it
 and it's going to solve the problem and oh look you know the solution is going to be next year
 the the analogy that hit me was curing cancer because there were there there sort of is an example
 of you know oh look we just we had a breakthrough and this is going to you know cure cancer it's like
 no we don't really understand enough yet about human biology to to say that we're going to do that
 and you know I know that the current administration has been you know these cancer moonshots and it's
 like okay have you actually talked to any biologists about this or do you just think that you can
 pour money on it and it's going to do the job so that's not always the case so to me this notion
 of the missing ingredient is the most salient of all of this is like what we may have today
 has become very good at doing what it does but it may not be extendable it may never be
 what we need for AGI but I think that that what I've shared so far gives a bit of
 calibration about where we are and what the goals of AGR of AGI are
 that's just the beginning I think of Steve's deep dive into AI and artificial general
 intelligence he's already pledged to learn more about it and to help us understand AI in the new
 year that's one of the things I think Steve does better than anybody else and it's one of the
 things I'm very proud about our network about Twitter is that we cover technology without fear
 or favor we try to spread more light than heat it's not about link bait for us it's about helping
 you understand the technology that is coming down the pipe and what you can do with it and
 what you can do to defend yourself against it and Steve's one of the best at doing that we're so
 glad you were here for our year-end episode Steve will take next week off because it's new years eve
 and we will get back reunite and begin talking about security once again in 2025 on the following
 Tuesday every Tuesday 11 a.m. I'm sorry 2 p.m. Pacific 5 p.m. Eastern 2200 UTC can watch us live
 or watch us after the fact it took that TV slash S and thank you for joining me thank you for Steve
 Gibson what a blessing he is to all of us and we will see you in 2025 have a happy holiday
 and a wonderful peaceful and productive 2025 bye bye
