 This is Security Now with Steve Gibson, episode 18 for December 15th, 2005 of Munching.
 Munching is a kind of sushi, isn't it?
 It's funny, I asked the developer, a guy named Alex Pankratov where he came up with the name
 Hamachi and he explained that he had been doing some work on an IPsec VPN tunneling technology
 prior to this and that they were calling it Tuna, T-U-N-A as tunneling architecture.
 And so when they started on this Hamachi project, I'm sorry, when they started on their second
 generation project, that's what this evolved into, they thought, well, what are we going
 to call this?
 And so, what is it, Yellowfin?
 Yellowtail?
 Yellowtail Tuna?
 Yellowtail Tuna is Hamachi and so that's the name of this.
 What it is, we've talked now extensively for many weeks about SSH tunnels, about the concept
 of tunneling, about SSL, about the traditional IPsec, Microsoft's L2TP, IPsec, the original
 PPTP, point-to-point tunneling protocol, blah, blah, blah, VPN, endpoint routers and all
 that.
 All of this really boils down to what do users actually use to solve these problems?
 We've talked about what it is that the problem is that VPN technologies solve.
 Hamachi, I am so excited about this, Leo, it's a secure from the ground up lightweight,
 free, peer-to-peer system that does NAT traversal, so it solves NAT traversal, firewall traversal,
 and essentially it allows people to build ad hoc local area networks.
 It's interesting, when I first installed it, it assigned my machine an IP in the five-dot
 range.
 I never heard of that.
 Well, there isn't any, you know, as we know--
 It's not 10 is the lowest you can go, right?
 Well, as we know, there are three networks that people are familiar with, if they've looked
 at the inside of their NAT routers, it's typically 192.168.something.something.
 It's kind of reserved by the numbers, folks, for private networks.
 Exactly.
 In fact, there's an RFC, it's RFC 1918, talks about these three networks.
 There's 192.168.star.star, there's 10.anything, anything, anything.
 And then another one is 172.16 through 172.31.
 So those three subnets are set aside for use in private networks.
 And so you typically find them behind NAT routers that are routing those private addresses
 out onto the public internet space.
 The point being that those are so-called non-routable subnet ranges, or IP ranges, because no routers
 on the internet would know how to forward a packet.
 Well, this five-dot network is reserved by the IANA, the internet assigned numbers association.
 By numbers and addresses.
 And addresses.
 John Postel's group, which I think has been subsumed by IANA.
 Probably.
 Anyway, so there are no five-dot IPs.
 Theoretically, there could be some day, but the reason Alex chose this five-dot is that
 he needed to give IP addresses to computers that were running Hamachi that would not collide
 with either IPs out in the public space or any of these three subnets, which they might
 be running behind NAT routers.
 So he needed sort of like a third class of IPs.
 And so IPs that have never been issued was where he went.
 And so, you know, is it 16 million?
 I don't know.
 I can't do the math here on the fly.
 But it's--
 It's four bytes.
 It's six.
 It's two.
 It's three bytes.
 Three bytes.
 So it's 24 bits.
 It might be.
 It's 24 billion.
 It's the total number of IPs that are from five-dot, zero-dot, zero-dot, zero-dot, two-fifty-five-dot, two-fifty-five-dot, two-fifty-five.
 Okay.
 So what's cool about this is, well, there are so many things that are cool about this.
 When you install Hamachi on your system, oh, it's multi-platform.
 Right now, it's just emerging from beta.
 It's available right now for Windows and Linux platforms.
 But as soon as it gets finished, as soon as the 1.0 version is released for Windows
 and Linux, shortly thereafter, he will be releasing it further for the Mac.
 Is this the Holy Grail?
 Because you were looking for a free solution that allowed anybody to tunnel out and have
 secure networking no matter where they were in a hotel and an airport on a Wi-Fi.
 Is this that Holy Grail?
 This is absolutely part of the Holy Grail.
 What's wrong with it?
 Well, the thing I was actually looking for initially was a way to, with no client software
 on your machine, to connect to a VPN router that would get you into your network or out
 to the Internet.
 But we now know that that's not possible.
 That's not going to happen.
 It doesn't exist.
 Actually, I should mention that several people have brought up the fact that there are some
 obscure routers.
 For example, the SMC Barricade, there are a couple versions that do support PPTP routing
 themselves.
 So that's certainly, I mean, there are some that you can connect to with Windows, but
 they're not these, you know, the major mainstream routers.
 And, again, the problem there would be that you might find yourself blocked by the environment
 where you were.
 You might find that your hotel was not allowing VPN or their router to not support VPN pass
 through.
 So you'd still have problems getting to your router at home.
 How much he doesn't have that problem.
 No.
 In fact, well, so it's multi-platform.
 When you install it on your machine, the Hamachi server issues a five-dot IP that your
 machine statically and permanently and forever has.
 That's its IP in this five-dot address space.
 It never changes.
 Now you can transport your setup to a different machine if you had some reason to, but the
 point is that's an IP that you can write down, you can configure it into links and do whatever
 you want to with it.
 You install this Hamachi client on whatever set of machines you want to.
 This would be at your home, probably, yes.
 Well, at your home, I've got it running in my colos location in my server space.
 You can install it on your web service.
 Absolutely.
 I mean, well, and I'll explain why because then what happens is you create ad hoc sub networks
 of these machines.
 For example, I've got one called Gibson Research Corporation, and in that, I have joined all
 of my various Hamachi-equipped machines into that network.
 You give it a long password, I've got a password from my passwords page at grc.com, one of
 these 63 character nightmares, dropped it in, it hashes it, and that authorizes that machine
 to join a network that you've created.
 Now the machines can see each other.
 What this does is it creates a secure, encrypted, peer-to-peer tunnel between any of the machines
 that are on the network.
 So, for example, many people have written saying, "Hey, I love using Remote Desktop,
 but I'm concerned about its security.
 What should I do?"
 Well, they should be concerned about its security because Remote Desktop does not have strong
 authentication, so it is subject to man-in-the-middle attacks, and it can be compromised.
 In fact, the current version of the Kain and Able Kain tool has the latest support for
 the current RDP protocol, which actually builds a file when you're running Kain of everything
 you do over your Remote Desktop session.
 So here, Hamachi solves the problem of wanting one computer to connect to and control another.
 This is within your LAN.
 It's within the LAN that you create, so you're able now to securely and safely use Remote
 Desktop through this Hamachi link with absolutely no concern that it can be eavesdropped upon.
 I've spent, I started talking to Alex on December 1st.
 Here we are on the 15th.
 I spent two weeks back and forth with him, asking him, I mean, bugging him to death, asking
 him very detailed questions about, "Okay, what about this?
 Are you hashing this password?
 Is it stored on the machine?"
 Everything.
 He has done this, I mean, perfectly correct.
 The client builds an asymmetric key pair, a so-called public key pair.
 It gives the public one to the server, so the server can be used as the key distribution
 mechanism.
 So you could dial into the server and say, "What's the public key?"
 Yes, and you're able to also see it in your client, if you want.
 The nice thing about the server having the public key is that other clients that you
 agree you want to have connect to you, they receive the key from the server.
 Basically, Hamachi is a zero-configuration VPN peer-to-peer system.
 It does not traversal, so that you're able, if two people behind Nat routers, it will
 connect them.
 His server does not forward any traffic and in fact, it is not a relay.
 It actually establishes direct point-to-point connections between the machines.
 So this is how he avoids the router issue, the firewall issue.
 He has a third point, a middle point, that you both make outgoing connections to, and
 then he connects you.
 Yes.
 It's like a rendezvous or a liaison server.
 So he basically figures out how your router is working, characterizes your router, and
 then works out, he tells them both clients over a TCP connection how to find each other.
 They find...
 This is without opening any...
 ...doing a port router.
 And that's the other cool thing, is that if you had a VPN router, if you had any server
 running on your system, you'd have to have static ports open in order for you to be able
 to connect to it from the outside, not so with Hamachi.
 It makes outgoing connections to the server, maintains a static TCP connection, then when
 you want traffic to go between machines, it's able to negotiate that directly.
 Using a random IP, a port that does use a port, though, doesn't it?
 Well, it's able to work through the local NAT router's port.
 So it works with whatever port the NAT router has assigned to outgoing traffic.
 Well, so it solves that problem.
 The security is complete.
 As I was saying about the asymmetric key pair, your private key never leaves your client.
 So you don't even have to trust the Hamachi server.
 The Hamachi server cannot be part of an attack on your system.
 It wasn't until I really understood this that I was willing to run these clients on
 my servers in my colo location.
 I mean, there's no way for the Hamachi system to access my stuff, even if it wanted to.
 But it has the public key.
 It's got the public key, but it doesn't have the private key for any of the clients.
 And you create the authorization when you initially create a connection between these
 endpoints.
 So it's extremely fast.
 The other cool thing is for people who are running around doing telecommuting.
 One option, of course, is to run an email client on your laptop.
 Then you've got the problem of synchronizing your email.
 If you're on the road and you download a bunch of stuff, then you've got it on your laptop.
 It's not back on your main system.
 So a cool solution for turning this into a system to give you internet access, which
 it doesn't natively do, is instead, if you're using a Windows-based system, use Remote Desktop,
 which is now secured by the Hamachi system, and it's made accessible.
 If you are using Remote Desktop without Hamachi, you'd have to have port 3389 wide open to
 the world.
 Everyone knows 3389 is Remote Desktop Protocol, and so you're potentially vulnerable to anyone
 knows you've got that open and soliciting a connection.
 If you use Hamachi to give you the same functionality of direct point-to-point connection, it's
 encrypted and strongly authenticated, which Remote Desktop Protocol won't do.
 You still have a point-to-point connection, so all you do is you bring up your desktop
 at home and use its web browser, use its email client, and use its connection to the internet.
 I've seen you do this, and it's pretty fast.
 Oh, well.
 I mean, it's fine.
 Well, yes.
 And, of course, everyone knows about VNC.
 VNC is the...
 It's a little slower.
 It is open-source.
 It is also cross-platform.
 Right.
 That's the problem with Remote Desktop is that the Windows-only technology...
 Although, there are clients for other... there are clients for other platforms.
 Ah.
 Well, in that case...
 So I could use my Mac to surf to my Windows machine using Hamachi, and then use my
 Windows machine on my Mac desktop as if I were using a Windows machine, including surfing
 out.
 So let's step back and talk about the process of putting Hamachi on, what you need to do
 to install Hamachi.
 You need a...
 There's a client and there's a server.
 Yes.
 No.
 It's a single program.
 A single program.
 A single program.
 The website is...
 And if you just put Hamachi into Google, you can get there, but it's...
 A-M-A-C-H-I.
 It's www.h-a-m-a-c-h-i.cc.
 Alex is up in Vancouver, and so he's got a .cc on the end of his URL.
 You'll go to his site, download his client, currently for Windows or Mac and Tash...
 I'm sorry, Windows or Linux, and then Mac is coming soon.
 Installing couldn't be any easier.
 You simply run the setup.
 You go through a little wizard-based install to basically tell it where you want to load
 it on your hard drive.
 It sees that it's being installed in a system that it hasn't installed before.
 There's a negotiation with a server where it assigns it a unique IP.
 Your client produces its own asymmetric key pair, which it then uses to perform strong
 authentication.
 You do that on a couple other systems.
 Now one trick is, he is assigning IP sequentially.
 When I installed it on my second machine, for example, one of mine was 5.11.66.114.
 That was the first one I installed.
 What's very cool is, I can tell you the IP.
 It doesn't matter.
 You can't get to 5.
 It doesn't exist on the internet.
 What's really cool is, my machine will always be 5.11.66.114.
 When I installed it on a second machine, it was like dot 1.20.
 I thought, oh, they're like, so 5 people had installed it between the time that I had.
 So I quickly installed it on three more machines so that I could get IPs, exactly, that I could
 get IPs that were sort of near each other.
 Now that we've made it famous, it may not be as easy to do.
 You're going to have to be quicker.
 But the Himachi server, his server is assigning the IP addresses and keeps tracking those.
 It's doling them out.
 So each one is unique.
 It's also, when your client builds the asymmetric key pair that's then used for authentication
 and encryption, the client gives its public key to the Himachi server so that it's able
 to then distribute it to anybody else who you authorize to connect.
 So you install it in a few systems.
 And you don't have to.
 You could have it only on one system, but it's nice to have it on a bunch of systems.
 Who would you talk to if you only know?
 Okay, you only need it on a laptop and a desktop and all through your office and your
 colo and everywhere.
 Yes.
 Why did you do that?
 Well, because I wanted to play with it.
 I wanted to get an understanding.
 But you can also log on to any of those machines now from your remote client.
 Well, yes.
 You can ping them.
 It supports Windows browsing directly so you can right click on any machine in the list
 and browse the directory on those drives.
 Do send me standard Windows file sharing, drag and drop.
 You have to set up file sharing in Windows?
 No.
 No.
 It's inside Windows already, so you don't have to do that explicitly.
 So once you've got it installed on a few machines, then you start creating one or more of your
 own networks where you define which machines get to participate.
 So for example, you would create a network.
 I created Gibson Research Corporation.
 It wants a password.
 So I went to my passwords page, came up with this nasty 63 character, random ASCII thing,
 and dropped it in.
 Well, of course, because Alex is a crypto guy, it digested the 63 characters with no trouble
 at all.
 Nobody will ever get that password.
 I mean, I won't if I ever lose it.
 So I put it in a text file.
 I took that to a couple of other machines, joined them to the Gibson Research Corporation
 Network.
 You only have to authenticate once though.
 Exactly.
 Well, and in fact, one of the questions I asked them just before I came up here to
 Toronto to do this podcast with you, was I said, wait a minute, what if I was at the
 tech TV studios and I wanted to join a tech TV machine temporarily to my prized super
 secret.
 I don't want to like risk anybody ever getting in their network.
 What do I do afterwards to like remove all trace?
 Well, again, they did this thing perfectly.
 The password that I use is never written to the hard drive, it's hashed into a long
 token, and that's then used to validate this machine against my network.
 So, then I would connect, I'd see all my machines there.
 I have now, by, you know, roaming around, oh, and since it's free, I don't even have
 to carry it with me.
 I go to any machines.
 Just download it.
 Just install it.
 Yeah, I would have to keep my Hwaki 63 character key round.
 So that allows me to join a machine into my super secret private network, do whatever
 I want to.
 When I unjoin it, it can never come back because the key is not stored locally, it's
 only used to authenticate against the server.
 So I never need to worry again about someone coming following in my tracks and reconnecting
 to my network after I've gone.
 Just uninstalling Hwamachi is sufficient to work.
 As people will see from the user interface, there's a join and a create network, and then
 there's a leave network.
 So if I just left my network, I can leave Hwamachi there.
 So we'll download, there's a single file we download, we install, we authenticate, we
 create a key.
 Actually, it's all done for you.
 You don't even see any of that.
 All of that is just done transparently.
 It's literally a zero configuration peer to peer system.
 It traverses firewalls and that's with that absolutely transparently.
 Deeply encrypted.
 So for example, it's our solution for hotel travelers, for Wi-Fi users.
 The one gotcha is you've got to have a machine somewhere for you to connect to.
 So you'd need to leave your home computer running with Hwamachi on in order for you in
 a Wi-Fi hotspot or in a hotel to connect to it.
 But it is absolutely free.
 Now they will have a premium version that will, for example, add some additional features.
 For example, it will run as a service in the background so you won't see it as an app
 on your desktop.
 What is an app right now?
 Yes.
 The free one won't relay at all, but there are some really nasty NAT routers.
 If you had a recalcitrant non-peer to peer-friendly NAT router on each end, then Hwamachi would
 not be able to negotiate a tunnel directly.
 So you would have to use the premium version.
 Which would provide that third point to use Hwamachi to use Hwamachi as a relay, and that's
 really fair too, because you're using their bandwidth.
 You're using their traffic.
 You're using their bandwidth.
 Exactly.
 So normally you're not.
 Normally you only use it to authenticate to handshake.
 Once the handshaking is done, you have a direct peer-to-peer connection between your
 home and your home.
 It's as fast as it could be between those two endpoints.
 Now the only addition is, okay, so that gives me access to my computer at home from the
 road.
 And as you said, if you want to surf the NAT or go out, you would just run Windows Remote
 Desktop, and in effect you'd be using your home computer, kind of like a go-to-my-PC
 solution or a Citrix solution, you'd be using your computer to do the surf.
 But for free.
 But for free.
 Because you're using your own system instead of somebody else's system.
 Is it tunneling?
 It's a tunneling solution basically.
 It is a virtual private network peer-to-peer secure tunneling system that, I mean, I can't
 find a single fault in it.
 I mean, I'm using it.
 I'm in love with this thing.
 And it's absolutely free from H-A-M-A-C-H-I.CC if people want to download it.
 And we're not done with VPNs.
 No, we've got one more week.
 We're going to talk about more.
 Or is there to say you've come up with the Holy Grail, Steve?
 Well, there's one more solution we have to talk about because it's very popular and
 that's the OpenVPN system.
 And that's next week.
 Okay.
 And we also have found a commercial provider, Hot Spot VPN, that works very well.
 Yeah, we're basically, so next week we're going to talk about, I mean, I hope everybody
 listening to this will go to www.habachi.cc play with it.
 It is a super cool system.
 Well, because I run a web server that runs Linux, I can install it on my Linux web server.
 And all of that stuff will be, in fact, my web hosting company won't block it because
 it looks like normal traffic, right?
 Well, that's the other, yes, that's exactly right.
 The other cool thing is that because it's running through a tunnel, no hotel can block
 it.
 And say that somebody working for a corporation had, you know, Gestapo firewall people who
 didn't let anything in or out, yet you wanted to access your network at home.
 You know, hamachi would allow you, if you have the ability to install, as long as you're
 going to install software on your corporate computer, this would allow you to literally
 on your desk, have access to your home computer.
 Also, you can't run this off a USB key because it does have to modify Windows.
 You couldn't just run it as a standalone application for USB key.
 I don't know.
 I think it's installs information in the registry or maybe in the directory.
 I'm not sure.
 The other thing is we've had some people on, for example, in prior months of tech TV,
 wanting gamers who wanted to know how they could, how he could set up his Xbox to game
 with somebody else.
 And the only solution we had at the time was VPN endpoint routers, to use VPN endpoint
 routers for that, hamachi is a perfect network for gamers.
 Okay.
 So next week, we're going to talk about open VPN in all of its various forms.
 Because there's, because the reason I want to talk about is there's so many ways it
 can be used, the hotspot VPN being one of them, a commercial service.
 And there are a number of others that aren't also completely free.
 It sounds like this is, hamachi is something that everybody would want to set up now, just
 to establish a connection between you on the road and your home system.
 If you were able to run remote desktop, you could then use it to do the kinds of things
 you would do, your home system, like surf, that and so forth, and that gives you internet
 access.
 That gives you your internet access and also access to all your files at home.
 You know, when I log on, I use SSH to log on to my web server.
 I'm essentially doing the same thing.
 I'm setting up a tunnel.
 The only difference is, of course, I have to leave port 22 open so that I can log in.
 And I have to, and I have to have, and I only have command line access to this.
 Well, the other problem is SSH is a TCP protocol.
 Tunneling TCP through TCP is problematical because TCP is itself an error correction guaranteed
 packet delivery protocol.
 When you tunnel one of those protocols within another of those protocols, they're not talking
 to each other because they're sort of separate sheaths that are carrying your data.
 You can get very bad performance on when you tunnel TCP in TCP.
 This is one of the things that's given VPNs a bad name.
 They seem slow because they're trying to do that.
 Well, yeah.
 What's the solution to that?
 The computers are fighting.
 The solution is to use UDP as the transport protocol.
 There you're sending packets only when you need to.
 So the internal TCP protocol gets encapsulated in UDP, and that's what Hamachi uses, and
 also because UDP translates through NAT routers and traverses NAT routers far more easily.
 So in fact, when I saw you, you gave me a little demonstration.
 You were sitting here on the set in Toronto, and you were logged on to your computer in
 Irvine, California.
 Look at my desktop.
 And I have to say, it looked every bit as fast as if you were actually there.
 Now that's partly because Windows Remote Desktop is efficient, but also because that UDP transport
 is not slowing you down.
 It's the right way to do a VPN.
 Now, the one other glitch that VPNs, the thing that hurts VPNs, is when you encapsulate packets,
 you make them bigger.
 And so what can happen is your packets can be fragmented because they won't traverse the
 internet because they end up being too big when they're wrapped in the packet.
 Hamachi fixes that and knows how to change the stack in your machine so that the TCP
 packets it generates are already shrunk so that when it's encapsulated, it still fits
 in within what's called the MSS, the maximum segment size, so that it won't fragment the
 packets.
 So you get, I mean, really good performance.
 In fact, I have, using Remote Desktop before, I have forgotten sometimes that I'm not on
 my computer.
 I mean, it's just not a painful experience.
 For Windows and Linux users, this is a remarkable solution.
 It gives you complete remote access to your home system and because you put all of your
 computers on this thing, you've got a menu of all the computers at home that you can
 access.
 In fact, not only does it give you such good access, you were able to shut down one of
 those computers by accident.
 I knew.
 Yes.
 I can't get to it right now.
 I was reconfiguring it and I meant to remotely choose reboot and I chose shut down and it
 powered off in Southern California, and there's no way to turn it back on from here.
 So that computer is now inaccessible.
 So one little word of warning, it's so much like the real thing, you could actually make
 a mistake.
 You need to be careful.
 Yeah.
 You don't have the power button next to you for the computer that you're talking to.
 It's a really, it sounds very, it sounds like the holy grail really close.
 I had my fingers crossed while I was vetting the security architecture, thinking, oh, and
 the UI is polished, I mean, it looks, it's a professionally assembled, beautiful piece
 of work.
 I mean, I can't recommend that highly enough.
 He's giving it away for free, but the good news is, and I say this good news, he has
 a business model where he can make money on it, and that means he will keep developing
 it and there's a chance.
 Well, and what's interesting too is he has said that he will sell the server side also.
 It's hosted on Linux.
 So he's not just going to be the sole source of the Hamaki protocol.
 If I'm a company, I want to set up for, you know, have a large number of telecommuting
 workers, I created Hamaki server at our home base, and I control it all.
 I don't have to worry.
 I know the secure, it's secure because I'm in charge of it.
 Boy, that's a great idea.
 Yeah, I just, and he's got, he's got online forums where people can ask questions.
 I'll be surprised if anybody has a question.
 I mean, it is, it's so simple to use.
 The graphics are beautiful.
 I get a question.
 You see the status of the different machines?
 Yeah.
 When is the Mac client coming out?
 What he said is he, it's at very late beta stage now.
 I've never had a problem with it.
 It's, yeah, it's, so it's like, it's almost there for Windows and for Linux, and as soon
 as that happens, he's going to do the Mac.
 So he's absolutely committed to a Mac-based platform.
 For Mac to work, you'd need something like Windows Remote Desktop.
 There is Apple Remote Desktop as fairly expensive.
 Or does it?
 To hook your Macs together.
 Yeah.
 Well, yeah, absolutely.
 That's great.
 H-A-M-A-C-H-I dot C-C, and of course the show notes and a 16-kilobate version of this
 show as well as transcripts are all available at grc.com slash security now dot h-t-m.
 There's one more issue I have to cover because it comes up so many times.
 I talked a couple episodes ago about the idea of, well, about the problem people are having
 when they have followed our advice and beefed their Wi-Fi, their wireless technology in their
 home up to WPA, or in some cases, just added full, you know, the strongest weapon encryption
 that they could if they don't have web compatible hardware, other stuff that they had like their
 T-vose, for example, or PDAs that don't support, exactly, that don't support the WPA are in
 trouble.
 I mentioned, oh, well, there's nothing to keep you from running two wireless networks
 at home.
 One secure and one relatively insecure.
 Yes.
 I said that, you asked me right then on the spot, what would the architecture be?
 How, where would, which router would go where?
 Well, I punted the question because, for me, I thought you answered it.
 No, I had to think about it extensively because of something known as ARP poisoning.
 It's different to answer the question, if we assume everybody is passive, then if we
 assume you could have an active attacker who could reorganize your networks by sending
 ARP replies very early in 2006, we're going to do a, do a podcast about ARP poisoning
 and what that's all about and why it's a, it's a concern.
 What this means though for now is the, and I've, I've gotten pencil and paper and really
 thought this through, if you put the insecure network inside and the secure network outside,
 the problem is it, because as we know, Nat routers are like one way valves, the insecure
 network would have upstream access to your stuff, to your, to your secure resources,
 which is a, is a bad thing.
 If we reverse it, if we put the insecure one upstream and the secured one downstream sort
 of inside, you still have a problem because now the insecure network is on your perimeter
 and it could potentially see the traffic coming from your secured network.
 It could be ARP poisoning.
 Well, exactly.
 Passively, the response from passive listening is different, but we, in this day and age,
 we need to assume, you know, any possible attack certainly that we know about.
 So the answer is, anyone who wants to run two wireless networks, they have re routers.
 They, yes, they do.
 You have to have a why architecture.
 You have your, your, your main router on the border that is not, just, it's a wired router.
 You then plug each of your wireless into it.
 So you'd essentially, you'd have three subnets, otherwise your traffic's passing through the
 insecure network.
 Yes.
 You, you kind of make it a tributary.
 This insecure network is somewhere off by itself.
 And ARP packets never traverse a router.
 ARP packets, ARP is a non-routable protocol.
 It's only used after all for associating Mac addresses and IPs within a LAN.
 So basically you'd have three LANs.
 You'd have the outside LAN that feeds the two inside LANs.
 So you'd have 192.168.0-something on one of them, 192.168.1.something, and 192.168.2.something.
 And so that's the architecture.
 You're going to draw this up and put it on the website?
 Yes.
 We're going to do a page.
 In fact, the, the, the page I showed you earlier that we'll, we'll be talking about
 in the show.
 Yeah.
 That was a page that grew out of my need to lay some foundation for this.
 All right.
 ARP.com/securitynow.htm, we thank the good folks at AOL Radio for providing the podcast
 channel, which this show and all the other Twitch shows appear on, AOLMusic.com, and
 of course they also donate bandwidth, which saves us a packet of money.
 I don't even, it makes it possible.
 Yeah.
 That's the truth of it.
 We'll see you next week on Security Now.
 We're going to talk about OpenVPN and a good commercial solution that is very easy to implement.
 In fact, I've been using it and I've been very happy with it here at the house.
 I wanted to give it a couple of weeks of, of play before we got everyone revved up for
 it.
 But meanwhile, enjoy your sushi treat from Steve Gibson.
 Oh, it's so good.
 Dale.
 Oh.
 Now, next week is Christmas week.
 So we might, I guess we'll just do the podcast.
 Yeah.
 Works for me on Thursday.
 Okay.
 I might, I might have to do it a little earlier because I have to go visit back.
 I'm around.
 Well, I'll tell you what, we'll deliver it on Thursday by hook or by crew.
 Absolutely.
 And then, and we'll be back the week after Christmas because we have no life.
 Thank you.
 I'm Steve Gibson.
 I'm Leo LaPorte.
 Thanks for joining us.
 Stay safe.
 Stay secure.
 We'll see you next time.
 Have some Hamachi.
 Have some Hamachi.
 Unsecurity now.
 All right.
