 (upbeat music)
 This is Security Now with Steve Gibson,
 Episode 19 for December 22nd, 2005.
 VPNs, the final chapter.
 (upbeat music)
 - The final frontier. - The final frontier.
 Steve Gibson, happy holidays to you.
 Thanks for joining us for even though we're so close
 to Christmas for this is the Security Now episode.
 You helped us out on Twit2 on Sunday, that was nice.
 - We're doing it a little bit early this week
 to give people some clearance from the holidays.
 - Give me some clearance.
 - We're not gonna miss a beat.
 We'll do one this week and then of course,
 Episode 20 will be next week,
 which will be our mod for Q&A episode.
 - Right, our usual, we answer your questions,
 so get them in to grc.com/securityn.html at HTM.
 That was not a good thing to do.
 - Oh God, after last week's Hamachi,
 I used to be saying, oh yeah, I'm keeping up,
 I'm reading everything that's coming in,
 I am so buried under stuff.
 - Yeah, that's all right, people have to do,
 I'm sure understand that you can't respond to everything
 and we'll try to respond as many as we can.
 - I can't even read everything at the moment,
 it's just been phenomenal.
 - Well, before we get into the final chapter of VPNs
 and we're gonna talk about OpenVPN this week,
 let's follow up on a few things from previous weeks,
 some corrections updates and Hamachi updates.
 - Yeah, some errata.
 First of all, everybody is writing to me
 about this article from earlier in the year,
 talking about cracking Wi-Fi protected access,
 cracking WPA.
 And I mean, people keep posting this link to me,
 I meant to bring it up last week,
 but as you know, I forgot my little errata notes
 at the beginning of the show, so we had to wing it.
 WPA has not been cracked,
 WPA is not prone to cracking.
 All this, the article is at informit.com
 and it was back from May, I think,
 or maybe it was March.
 No, yeah, it's March, so nine months ago,
 it's a two-part article that goes into excruciating detail
 about brute force attacks on WPA.
 Well, that's what we've talked about.
 We know that WPA is susceptible to an offline
 brute force attack, that you can capture a couple packets
 and then take those home with you
 and pound on that data,
 trying either dictionary attacks or every possible key,
 which is why the passwords page at grc.com was created
 to give people these really nasty, long WPA keys
 that nobody is gonna be able to end up
 in any reasonable amount of time recreate.
 So I want everybody who's been concerned
 about what this article means, and by the way,
 I mean, I don't blame anyone for being confusing.
 This thing was deliberately created,
 it seems to be extremely confusing and alarming,
 but WPA is not cracked, there's no simple way
 to breach it as long as you use a really good passphrase.
 - It's kind of a shame, I guess informit decided,
 well, let's go for the big headline,
 get a lot of attention, a lot of traffic to our page,
 but everybody, no, I mean, many protocols, not all,
 but almost all protocols are subject to brute force attacks.
 That's, you know, bad password, no security, we know that.
 - Yeah, and what you hope is that it's not subject
 to anything else, which is clearly the concern
 that this article raised.
 Now, also, that we have already begun to see
 the emergence of WPA brute force cracking tools
 floating around in the hacker sites.
 So that's something else that I saw in the last couple of weeks
 is there are, we're beginning to see that emerge.
 So, as we've told people before, WPA is safe
 as long as you use a really good passphrase.
 - grc.com/passwords and you can get a good one.
 - All right, now, one other little loose end
 was we've talked about the problem of distributing
 those super secure passphrases
 and talked about the idea of using just a standard little
 USB, you know, drive dongle.
 One other thing occurred to me,
 and that is that those little mini CDRs would work.
 You could take maybe 10 passwords
 and just burn them on a CDR.
 There, they're gonna be in volatile.
 It's easy for you to move them around
 from machine to machine.
 Every machine that you run across
 is gonna have a CD-ROM drive now.
 And that way, it's extremely simple to move
 this really long password
 that you wouldn't want to have to type in manually.
 - Of course, the CDR is, you're not gonna change it very often,
 but I guess that's kind of the idea anyway.
 And that's the whole idea is you don't want to change
 this super, super bizarre password.
 And in fact, that's why I was suggesting
 you might put 10 of them on there.
 You might start off just using the first one.
 If for any reason, you, for example,
 had to disclose it to a friend who came over, you know,
 for example, move them onto your WPA network
 by giving them that password.
 Then if you wanted to, you might feel more comfortable
 switching to your number two password
 that's already recorded on the CDR throughout your network
 so that you've essentially obsolete at that first one.
 You've removed it from being able to have any access
 to your network.
 - We were talking about that at the meetup
 comes something kind of related, which is this reverse,
 this cracking of the MD5 hashes.
 Somebody put out a CD or a disc, I guess it was a hard drive
 with all of the reverse hashes, right?
 So you could do a reverse lookup?
 - Well, yeah, it's called a pre-computation attack.
 And we're seeing that both for MD5 and SHA1.
 The idea is that those are very secure hashes.
 They have been weakened a little bit
 through recent cryptanalysis, but they're still, you know,
 they're widespread in extreme use everywhere.
 What's happened is hard drives have gotten so big
 and so cheap, and of course the internet has happened.
 What's going on is that people are pre-computing
 the hashes, they're doing basically a brute force in reverse.
 Well, they're doing a brute force use of the hash forward
 and they're storing the value and its corresponding hash
 on a hard drive.
 Then what you do is you go to a website
 that's got this massive database of pre-computed hashes,
 you give it the hash, it gives you the password.
 So it hasn't cracked the hash, it's just done them all.
 - That's pretty amazing.
 - Well, once again, that's why a good long random pass phrase
 or password is the best solution
 'cause they're not gonna brute force something like that.
 - Exactly, it's gonna be way down after the end
 of the life of the universe before they get to it.
 Now, also in a prior episode, I mentioned the idea
 of creating a secure connection to webmail.
 That is we were talking about SSL
 and the very beginning of our VPN conversation,
 how if you're using an SSL connection to a remote server,
 your communications cannot be eavesdropped on.
 - That's how Yahoo mail works and a number of other clients
 and you can even use a pop client that way
 if your ISP supports it.
 - Exactly, but in the case of webmail,
 some people were having problems doing this with Google
 because it turns out that Google has a funky way
 of bouncing you from your log on page
 which is secure to a non-secure session
 once you've logged on.
 So I did a little poking around and it turns out
 that if you use the proper URL among many ways
 of getting into Google mail, for example,
 if you use HTTPS colon slash slash mail.google.com
 or HTTPS colon slash slash gmail.google.com
 then for whatever reason, you'll get a secure connection
 when you're actually logging on
 and it will bounce you to a continuing secure interaction
 with the server subsequently, but other ways of entering
 bounce you over to a non-secure connection.
 So if you use HTTPS colon slash slash mail.google.com
 or gmail.google.com, it will see that you want
 a secure connection and leave you that way.
 - Good to know, all right.
 That's what you should bookmark and use that every time.
 - And in the last little bit of stuff
 that I have been meaning to say for weeks
 but keep forgetting, you got your notes now.
 - I do, baby.
 I'm home.
 We've never told everybody who's listening to security now
 that GRC runs and has for years
 an extremely useful set of security related news groups.
 Our new server is news.grc.com.
 And if you, this is not a web based forum.
 It's real, you know, use net style news reading
 but most web browsers, you know, i.e. and opera
 and I presume Firefox do have built in use net news readers.
 - So, actually Firefox does not.
 But there are, well, it kind of does.
 It's got a funky way of doing it
 but you can add an extension like Sage or Fizzle
 to give it that capability.
 - Okay, well, I'm not a big fan of web based forums
 because I've become addicted to like real use net style news
 where you've got lots of news groups.
 You've got well threaded, very clearly threaded dialogues.
 You can see which postings you've read and so forth.
 My favorite client is free and that's gravity.
 The gravity and news reader for Windows
 that people can find on the net.
 And there are other ones.
 - Actually, I wanna correct myself.
 I was talking about RSS.
 People use Thunderbird for a news group reading
 as opposed to Mozilla or Firefox.
 Yeah, but you like gravity.
 That's a good, I'll put a link in the show notes to that.
 - I like gravity.
 Also on our main navigation bar at grc.com
 at the top of the home page
 or the bottom of every page,
 the far right link there is called discussions.
 We have a page at grc.com/discussions.html
 that will give people some sort of some foundation in this.
 I have a step by step guide for setting up internet explorer
 or I guess it's Outlook, is it?
 Oh yeah, I'm sorry.
 It's Outlook Express that has is both email
 and has the news reader.
 So I take them through a step by step.
 We have a little bit of some fancy stuff going on
 for the way you log on that I explain
 because we have something that no other news reader has
 which is an ability to allow people
 to securely cancel their own messages.
 I create a hash of their username and password
 that they use for logging on
 so that they're able to securely delete
 their own postings if they want to
 without anybody else being able to.
 Anyway, there's a bunch of technology
 I've actually been working on for years
 for our own news groups.
 So I wanted to tell people among our listeners
 I know from the feedback we get
 we've got real security junkies here
 and there is a really super community of people
 who hang out on news.grc.com, my news server there
 and in fact the discussions page does allow you
 to use a web reader, a web interface
 to just sort of browse around the news groups
 if you weren't sure you wanted to go to all the trouble
 of setting up a news reader and participating
 you're not able to post from there
 but you can browse around and look at see
 what the news groups are.
 Oh, and I just created a security now news group.
 - Great.
 - That is there, it's been there for a few days
 so it'll be entertaining specific dialogue
 relating to whatever we're talking about on security now.
 - So grc.com/discussions.htm.
 You can read them online if you wanna participate.
 We'll put a link to Gravity, Steve's favorite news reader
 but there are many, many choices of course.
 - And if you've got Outlook Express with Windows
 you've already got a news reader built in.
 - That's cool.
 - Okay.
 - Homachi, let's finish up from last week
 'cause that was very popular.
 - Yes, now the good news is a lot of people
 fell in love with this.
 Alex Pankratov, the Homachi's chief lead developer
 the guy that I was talking to for several weeks
 before talking about this last week
 sent me a link for from his delicious server
 that shows all the people that are linking
 and there was a phenomenal reaction
 to a number of people who are interested
 in Homachi following are talking about it last week.
 I've got one posting here that someone sent
 of a few hours ago who posted to our site saying,
 I do a lot of traveling and I've always had issues
 with using the wireless connections at hotels.
 I was so happy to have heard about Homachi
 that I had it installed and running
 before I finished listening to your podcast.
 You are right, Homachi rocks.
 - Very easy on Windows, a little more tricky.
 I did it on Mac.
 You have to download some additional software
 and do some configuration but I started using it right away
 and I love it.
 - Are you talking about Homachi on the Mac?
 - Oh, I'm sorry.
 Something else.
 - You're talking about, you're talking about OpenV.
 Forget I mentioned that, I'll edit that out.
 So Homachi is very cool and there is no Homachi
 for the Mac but that's coming.
 - Yeah, so he said, you're right, Homachi rocks.
 I'm leaving for Europe for a three week vacation
 and now using Homachi and an open source VNC.
 I have a way to securely connect to my home PC,
 transfer files, browse the web and check email.
 - Wow.
 - So there's an example of the good news.
 Now, there were some disappointed people
 who for example are behind very restrictive corporate firewalls
 or behind like ISP proxy servers.
 So it's important to say that good as Homachi is,
 there certainly are Homachi hostile environments
 where you're not gonna be able to use Homachi.
 Unfortunately, those people who were really excited
 by last week's podcast about Homachi
 and downloaded the client hoping that they would be able
 to immediately connect to their home machines.
 In some cases, they were, in some cases,
 they found that for whatever reason,
 for example, their corporate firewall.
 I saw some posts where their corporate firewall
 allows traffic out through port 80 and 443.
 - And that's it.
 - Oh, only.
 - Geez.
 - For example, DNS goes to the corporate DNS server.
 SMTP and POP for transferring email
 or in fact, maybe IMAP goes to the, again,
 the corporate local mail server
 and they have no access to anything
 other than ports 80 and 443 for browsing the web.
 So in that scenario, they're gonna need a different tool.
 The good news is we've got a different tool
 which we will be talking about.
 But so there were people for whom Homachi was not,
 you know, the holy grail that we've been talking about.
 - Hey, if I were a corporate IT guy,
 I think blocking all ports but 80 and 443
 sounds like a pretty darn good idea.
 - Oh, I agree.
 I would do that.
 - In fact, some people took exception
 understandably to my saying last week,
 "Hey, you know, you could run this at home
 "and on your desktop in your company
 "and get access to what you were doing."
 - Well, and get access to your home.
 And of course, the reciprocal works from home,
 you could get access into your corporate network.
 People were annoyed that I, as a security person
 or security conscious person, was suggesting the use of this
 for accessing corporate networks remotely.
 And so your point is well taken, Leo.
 You would hope that a corporation already has dealt
 with this because, you know, it's been possible
 for a long time using all kinds of techniques.
 - And we're not advocating doing an end around
 on your IT security 'cause the next zotob worm,
 if you're the vector that brings it into the corporation,
 they're not gonna like you too much.
 - That'd be bad.
 - That'd be a bad thing.
 One other note I got from a good friend
 and Pearl Wizard, Randall Schwartz,
 he's the author of "Learning Pearl"
 and really a great guy.
 Had a couple of questions for you.
 First of all, he said, how much he's not open source?
 How can we trust it?
 - Ah, well, that's a very good point.
 I mean, it's one of the things that made me anxious
 and continues to make me anxious.
 I'm gonna end up probably over on OpenVPN,
 which is how we're gonna wrap up this episode
 of "Security Now."
 But Hamachi is, I'm convinced that Alex
 has really designed this system
 exactly as he's told me he has.
 He's got years of experience with security,
 implementing IP sectionals, classic VPN solutions.
 I couldn't feel any better about this than I do,
 short of doing a complete source audit
 and build, verify, and all that,
 which is just not practical.
 So it's certainly the case, though,
 that, well, I mean, we're trusting Bill
 when we use Windows.
 - But that's why a lot of people say
 use open source security software
 and only open source security software,
 'cause you don't know what government backdoors
 are in there and so forth, things like PGP,
 you know what's in there.
 - Well, that's certainly the case.
 And in fact, I think you made a comment,
 I don't remember if it was before the podcast
 or under your breath that it was like,
 Alex Pankerov sounds like a Russian.
 - Who is this guy?
 - KGV.
 - Who are we?
 - Well, and in fact, it's why I went around and around
 with him to make sure, for example,
 that the asymmetric key pair generated by the client
 was never given, at any point was given to the server
 or left the client so that it wasn't necessary
 for us to trust the Hamachi server.
 And, you know, I'm sure Alex has told me the truth,
 but I have no proof of it.
 So listeners should certainly be aware of that.
 And he points out and I'm sure we'll talk about it
 at some point that the next version of OpenSSH 4.3
 will support ad support for tunneling.
 Essentially, you can set up an OpenVAPN type tunnel
 using SSH, which will be nice.
 - It'll be nice, but again, we have to be careful
 with details because OpenVPN has done something very correct
 that Hamachi has also done very correct,
 which other solutions have not.
 And that is, because it's open, I assume it's OpenSSH,
 so it's a TCP tunnel.
 And we've talked before about the problems of tunneling TCP
 through TCP, whereas Hamachi is UDP based
 and OpenVPN in its default configuration is UDP based.
 And that's a better transport protocol
 because you don't have the problem
 of two reliability guaranteeing protocols
 like TCP interacting with each other in a bad way.
 - And as you pointed out,
 that's one of the reasons people don't like VPNs.
 They seem slow and sluggish
 is because it's TCP over TCP.
 - Well, the other problem is yes,
 that TCP optimizes its packet size
 so that it doesn't fragment as it crosses the internet.
 The problem is if you encapsulate TCP in TCP,
 you're making a larger packet
 because you've got the already maximum size TCP packet
 enclosed in another packet that has inherently made it bigger.
 So you often have fragmentation problems
 which can be very severe,
 meaning that every packet hits the first router
 that is not able to forward that overly large packet.
 It cracks it in half
 and the internet never reassembles those.
 So suddenly you've got twice as many packets,
 twice the opportunity for packet loss and retransmission
 and twice the number of packets coming back in
 that then need to be reassembled
 and some routers will not
 because there have been a history of fragmentation attacks.
 Different ways of using fragmented packets
 to get through firewalls
 because for example, a firewall that doesn't have
 the whole packet can't really check it
 as thoroughly as it would like to.
 Many firewalls drop fragments
 because fragments are not supposed to happen.
 So this is one way that VPNs
 can not only have low performance but actually fail.
 - Good to know.
 All right. - Anyway, one last issue
 with Hamachi is relative to remote desktop.
 I was jumping up and down last week
 about how I was able to log on to my desktop remotely
 from home from Toronto.
 - You showed us.
 It was so cool. - Yeah, exactly.
 I mean, and thankfully remote desktop
 is a very efficient protocol.
 Hamachi has a problem,
 or I guess actually remote desktop has a problem.
 If the Hamachi client is running
 with the same user on your desktop
 that you are trying to log in as remotely,
 you get this user already logged on sort of collision,
 apparently.
 Alex has responded to this
 and over in the Hamachi forums,
 there is discussion and the resolution of this problem.
 It turns out that if you run Hamachi as a service,
 then it runs as the system process
 as opposed to on your desktop as the logged in user,
 and then you're able to log in remotely.
 So for all the people who have had problems
 getting remote desktop to work as easily as I did,
 I actually was running it as a system process, as a service.
 So it was logged in as the system
 and not as the user I was logging into it as.
 - Is that dangerous?
 - It's got a system-- - You are trusting it
 because it has more privileges in your system.
 - Right.
 All right, we're all caught up, right?
 - Any more?
 - The one last issue with Hamachi.
 - We may have to put open V and up to the next week.
 No, go ahead.
 - Well, but Hamachi's important
 and it's gonna be one of our enduring solutions, I'm sure.
 Some people are using Hamachi on their own internal networks
 and have said, "Hey, I've got all my systems
 "running with Hamachi.
 "Do I need WPA anymore?"
 Well, that's a really good question.
 If you were sure that you're using Hamachi
 for your file sharing and to link things together,
 I could argue that that really replaces the need
 for internal Wi-Fi encryption.
 Remember, however, that you do have the problem
 of people using your network
 and being able to mess with your systems.
 You still, even if you've got Hamachi
 interconnecting your systems,
 you still have your non-Hamachi IAPs available.
 So there's two problems.
 There's the problem of you using the non-Hamachi IP
 by mistake, if you weren't really careful.
 And the fact that all the non-Hamachi,
 the regular native IPs, are still available.
 So it's really not okay not to use WPA.
 I would not recommend it.
 However, one of the cool things about using Hamachi
 within your network, especially if you've adopted
 one of the multi-net router approaches
 that we've talked about, for isolating networks
 from one another, people who have done that in the past
 have written to me saying they've got problems
 because they were like file sharing
 and printer sharing breaks across routers.
 And that's the case because Windows normal file sharing
 broadcasts will not be moved across routers.
 Hamachi does forward broadcasts
 and people have reported that using Hamachi,
 now they've got their file sharing back
 even in complex multi-router configurations.
 - And we also met a number of gamers who use Hamachi.
 This might up to now have been the most popular use
 of Hamachi to turn a LAN games into WAN games,
 which is very cool.
 - Right.
 - Yeah, we won't say, we won't name the person
 who told us all about that.
 - Nope, because of his high ranking security clearance.
 (laughing)
 - In the military.
 - We won't.
 - That's enough.
 - Okay.
 (laughing)
 - But I think it's, that's actually a gamers
 were the first to really get the value of Hamachi, I think.
 - Yep.
 - Yeah.
 - All right.
 Shall we talk about our subject for the week,
 which is open VPN?
 - Not quite.
 - Oh, there's more?
 - There's one more.
 - One more thing.
 - I have to talk about IPig.
 The worst named, but very compelling looking VPN solution.
 I just started playing with yesterday.
 A number of users wrote to me about it.
 I tracked it down.
 It's www.iopus.com.
 I-O-P-U-S dot com.
 The trouble is for some reason the guy who did this
 shows a picture of a silver hardware wireless router
 on the page for IPig.
 And several times I went there thinking,
 "No, no, no.
 "I'm not looking for a hardware solution.
 "I don't want an I-fandom style thing.
 "I'm looking for a client and server software package."
 Well, that's what this is.
 It's got nothing to do with hardware at all.
 So I'm not sure why he shows a hardware router on the page,
 leading people to think that, unfortunately,
 that's something to do with what his IPig software is.
 Is it like a software version of a hardware router?
 - Okay, it is extremely cool.
 I ran his server.
 He has a free server and a free service.
 I ran his server on my system.
 I installed his client on my laptop.
 I then connected to my...
 Oh, I then I also had to forward a port
 from my router through to the listening port on my server.
 So there is that aspect that anybody
 who's gonna be running a server on their land
 needs to be aware of.
 Hamachi avoids that by doing outbound, directed,
 nat traversal.
 So that's not a problem.
 But anyone using OpenVPN or using IPig
 will need to open a port and forward a port
 through their router, also through their firewall,
 if they've got one,
 so that the program is able to answer incoming calls.
 I then, using this free client and server solution,
 I connected to my server.
 I ran remote desktop.
 I connected to my file shares.
 I talked to other machines in my own private land
 and accessed the internet back out
 through my internet connection.
 I mean, it is the holy grail that we were looking for.
 Unfortunately, it's called IPig.
 - And it's not free.
 - It is free. - It's free.
 - It's completely free.
 His server side unit will allow you to define five accounts
 and presumably have five users simultaneously using it.
 I can't imagine why that's any practical limitation.
 He also has a free service.
 You can use his server with a five gigabyte limit
 for an account.
 And which is, I mean, would last you years
 if you were just using it for email,
 if you were trying to do something
 like using BitTorrent or something,
 that would be a problem.
 You would burn out that account before long.
 He's thinking of going to a paid service
 like $29.95 per year for hundreds of gigabytes,
 which solves that problem.
 So it's really an interesting solution.
 You use the free IPig, which I hate saying,
 but there it is, IPig client.
 You connect to his server.
 I mean, it's a simple download.
 You connect to his server.
 You've got encrypted access from any hotspot
 out to the internet and it's free.
 - Well, is this better than open VPN or I mean,
 public VPN or hotspot VPN or one of the commercial services?
 - What he's doing is he's redirecting.
 He runs a little driver in the client
 that redirects your traffic through the connection
 the client has made to your server.
 Then it goes out over the internet.
 Now, the problem with this is that the traffic
 is gonna be prone to proxying and not problems.
 Unless he's dealt with that.
 I've got a dialogue open with him now.
 His name is he's a neat guy in Germany.
 They're based in Germany, Matthias Roth.
 I was concerned about the security aspect,
 so I opened a dialogue with him.
 We went back and forth actually this morning.
 And if anyone wants to go to the IPig forums,
 they'll see my posting and the thread
 between Matthias and myself talking about exactly
 what the security protocol is.
 'Cause I did some packet sniffing last night
 and I saw that my username was in the clear,
 followed by a 256 bit token.
 And I was concerned that that might be the key.
 He uses 256 bit AES encryption, which is very strong.
 And over the course of the morning,
 going back and forth with him, he's gone to sleep now,
 'cause he's in Germany.
 And we're gonna continue our discussion
 when he wakes up in the morning, his time.
 Anyway, he did everything correctly.
 His system is prone to the same kind of brute force
 or security attack that WPA is,
 or any pre-shared key technology is.
 But it's very clean, it's very simple,
 and it looks fine to me.
 So you download his free IPig client,
 you connect to his server, you've got wherever you are,
 hotspots, hotels, you name it,
 you've got up to five gigabytes per account of access.
 You would then have to delete the account
 and create a new one, and you've got five gig more.
 I'm hoping this works for him,
 and that people will instead, once he offers a four fee service,
 we'll consider using that.
 The other cool thing is, using the same technology,
 anyone can download his free server,
 set it up in a Windows machine.
 Ah, this is only Windows.
 So that's one difference from OpenVPN at Hamachi,
 is at the moment at least, it's only a Windows platform
 based solution.
 So you'd run the IPig server on your system,
 change the default port, he defaults to 11888.
 The first thing I did was move it somewhere else,
 because you would never want to be running any service
 like that on the manufacturer's default port,
 so that if some vulnerability was found
 at some future point in his server,
 you'd have people scanning the net looking to attack you
 and get into your system that way.
 So running on a different port, forward that,
 through your router, and you can connect to it just the same.
 And when you do, you have access to all your machines
 in your network, as well as access out to the internet.
 So it's a really interesting solution.
 I haven't spent nearly as much time with it as I have
 with Hamachi, and again, there is the question
 that I've raised that he had to go to sleep,
 so he hasn't answered yet, is what about protocols
 which are NAT, router, and proxy sensitive.
 For example, in the FTP protocol,
 several of the connection setup includes your IP address
 and port number of your machine.
 Well, since this has been redirected
 through a different machine, those packets
 are no longer gonna be correct.
 NAT routers that are aware of this,
 they will reach into, they'll see that you're doing FTP
 based on ports and looking at the protocol.
 They'll reach in and adjust those packets
 to reflect the fact that the IP has been changed.
 I don't know if he's doing that.
 It's a big job if he is, and there are other protocols
 like SIP and the H.363, the various teleconferencing protocols
 that also embed ports and IPs in their packets.
 So it might be that this isn't a universal solution,
 but certainly for web browsing and mail
 and many other things, it's worth a try,
 and it's free and the security looks fine
 as long as you go to my passwords page
 or just invent a really nasty long key,
 he's got everything else worked out well.
 So again, I think people should take a look at it.
 >> Change the default port, use a nasty key.
 And we should say that, yeah, as bad as IP is,
 at least it's an acronym for the IOPUS private internet gateway.
 So there's a reason for it.
 It's bad, but there's a reason for it.
 >> The logo has a pig's nose with a key hanging from it.
 >> That might be worse than the name, but it's free.
 >> It's free and it looks great.
 And I'm going to be working with Matthias in the future.
 I will get answers to these questions that I still have.
 I'll talk about it, I'm sure, next week,
 and have an update for people.
 But it really looks like a very nice solution.
 >> All right, now we're more than half an hour
 to the podcast and we haven't really gone
 to the meat of the matter, so let's do that now.
 >> Well, the good news is there is too much meat
 for us to get to on OpenVPN.
 OpenVPN is probably what I'm going to end up using
 and what you're going to end up using.
 >> It's the holy grail?
 It is, for many reasons, the holy grail.
 It's not client-free.
 We know no client-free solution exists.
 We tried that using Word, or I'm sorry, Word,
 using Windows, PPTP, IPsec, L2TP, all the acronym soup stuff.
 We realized that VPN net routers are good
 for talking to each other, but really not designed
 for talking to rowing hotspot users
 and that those protocols tend to get blocked
 with a high degree of probability.
 OpenVPN is an open source project located over at SourceForge.
 It uses a UDP tunnel, which is the best transport
 for moving tunneling protocol
 if you're able to get UDP from your client to your server.
 It is multi-platform running on Linux,
 on the BSDs, on Windows, on the Mac,
 so it's a beautiful multi-platform solution.
 The other cool thing is, thanks to its open nature,
 it's been ported many places.
 For example, an open VPN server is part of Monowall,
 which many people are already running
 on their little discarded PC running Linux
 and they're using it as their firewall
 or gateway in their home network.
 So open VPN can be installed or turned on in Monowall
 and you've got remote access to your internal LAN.
 It's also supported by the OpenWRT project,
 which means that people who are downloading
 different firmware for their Lynxis and other routers
 will be able to essentially put an open VPN server
 in their little plastic retail box
 and again, access their network from remotely
 much as we were hoping people would be able to
 in the Holy Grail.
 And finally, there's a very nice service
 that you, Leo and I have both been using now
 for a couple of weeks, which is called HotSpot VPN.
 HotSpot VPN uses just the OpenVPN system
 right out of the box.
 What they provide is about a $10 a month service
 where they provide the internet connectivity
 for anyone using OpenVPN out on the road.
 - So OpenVPN requires you to run a server
 that your client can log into,
 but you can subscribe to services
 that run the server for you.
 - Yes, very much like Hamachi, OpenVPN
 when installed on your system creates a virtual adapter.
 Now that's important because that's the only clean way
 I've seen of solving this packet fragmentation problem.
 You're able to tell the adapter
 that its maximum segment size is smaller
 than what's truly the maximum segment size for the network.
 So that when TCP is setting its protocol up
 and generating packets, it'll be making smaller packets
 which then the protocol encapsulates
 in its transport tunnel in order to send over the internet.
 So you end up with, oh, and it's using UDP,
 so maximum VPN performance.
 I don't think anybody will see a slowdown
 using HotSpot VPN.
 I've certainly noticed none.
 - And I was using it too,
 and I was actually very impressed by the performance.
 It seemed like it didn't slow it down at all.
 Yeah, on my Mac.
 - Yes, and for example, someone behind a corporate firewall
 that is allowing TCP 80 and TCP 443,
 they would be able to use OpenVPN
 to get to their machines at home
 because it would look just like
 unless the corporate system was actually running a proxy
 where it's accepting their true HTTP connections
 and then regenerating a request outbound
 which certainly could be going on.
 But if it's just using port filtering,
 they'd be able to access their network from home.
 So what I like about it is it's a widely multifaceted solution.
 It's available cross-platform,
 it's available in many forms,
 and we have a reasonable priced HotSpot VPN service
 that will allow road warriors
 to encrypt their connections out of the danger zone,
 out of the hotel and out of a Wi-Fi environment,
 out to the HotSpot VPN location.
 I believe he's got, I've spoken to Glenn,
 who's the founder of this Open of the HotSpot VPN solution.
 He's got networks, I think, on both coasts,
 and he's considering putting another network,
 perhaps in an international setting,
 in order to continue to do some load balancing.
 But it's a very wide application domain.
 The downside, and of course there is one,
 is it is anything but one click,
 whereas Hamachi, if it works for you,
 is amazingly zero configuration.
 And even IPEG, if it can work for you,
 will probably be a fantastic solution
 for people for whom that works.
 OpenVPN is a much more complex product.
 It's, I would consider it the Swiss Army knife
 of VPN solutions.
 You configure whether you want TCP or UDP protocol,
 what port you want to run on,
 and, I mean, well, that's just the beginning.
 I mean, it's better.
 >> I want to clarify something just so people understand
 that the commercial providers like HotSpot VPN,
 they're providing the OpenVPN service.
 In fact, they make it pretty easy to configure.
 That's one of the reasons you pay them.
 But that's not, when you talk about OpenVPN,
 you're talking about the free software that they use,
 which is more complicated to set up on your own.
 >> Yes, and in fact, I don't want to scare people away
 from HotSpot VPN.
 I was very impressed.
 >> That was on Windows.
 That's just, you run an installer and that's it.
 >> I mean, literally, it installs exactly the same stuff
 as if you were to download it from SourceForge,
 except that they've done all the work
 of pre-preparing your asymmetric public key certificates.
 It's all part of the bundle.
 So you sign up for HotSpot VPN,
 you get a link in a return email,
 you click the link, download a package,
 install it on your machine,
 and you literally click an icon on your taskbar,
 and you're connected securely to their servers.
 It is that simple.
 They've done all of the work.
 >> I installed it on a Windows machine
 and a Mac machine.
 >> Very easy on Windows, a little more complicated on Mac
 'cause you need a second solution called tunnel blicks,
 and you have to configure that a little bit.
 What does it take to do OpenVPN yourself?
 What are the steps to do that?
 >> Well, that's really what I'm not gonna talk about today.
 'Cause it's so complicated.
 >> Well, yes, what I'm gonna do is,
 a lot of people have said,
 okay, enough already on the VPN topic.
 And in fact, it doesn't make sense for me
 to try to explain in detail
 how to install OpenVPN oneself.
 I'm only gonna be using all the online documentation.
 I'm gonna put up on my show notes
 for this episode 19,
 a list of all the online available documents.
 So anyone who is intrepid and wants to go ahead
 and mess with OpenVPN,
 knowing that we've vetted it enough to know
 that it really does work
 and it really is a terrific solution,
 anyone who wants to is welcome to.
 What I'm gonna do in the background now
 is I'm gonna put together somehow,
 I'm gonna distill all that
 into some simple, easy-to-use how-to guides.
 >> That's kind of what's lacking
 in the OpenVPN documentation.
 >> Yes, it really is.
 Well, the problem is these guys who developed it
 are all excited about all the bells and whistles they've got.
 I mean, there's all kinds of stuff
 where if you drop your connection,
 you may come back with a different MAC address
 because the adapter signs a MAC address on the fly,
 so you would have an old MAC address in the ARP table,
 but there's a command line,
 a switch you can put in to automatically flush the ARP table
 and reconnect, blah, blah, blah, right.
 So I'm gonna work through all that nonsense.
 I'm gonna figure out, okay, here is exactly what you have to do.
 Here's some scripts, here's some guides,
 here's some screenshots, follow these instructions
 and you'll be set up with like the optimal configuration.
 And the good news is there is a really good optimal setting
 where you can connect into your system remotely
 and with what's called a bridge
 as opposed to a routed connection.
 The bridging connection essentially extends
 your local LAN ethernet, including the ethernet broadcasts
 across the bridge to your machine.
 That means that all file and printer sharing works,
 non-TCP protocols work, like if you wanted to use net buoy
 for your, if you were really security conscious,
 that would work through the bridge and ARP traffic works.
 So for example, you're able to participate on the LAN
 and automatically route back out to the internet.
 So I mean, it is, it's a high configuration,
 holy grail solution.
 I'm gonna work to, and I wanna make it clear
 that at the time that we're recording this Leo,
 these guides don't exist, but that's what I'm working on.
 I'm gonna nail this stuff down for myself
 and I will share everything I learn along the way
 and distill some simple how-to approaches
 that figure out exactly what to do to make it work.
 - So if you can do that, then OpenVPN would be your choice.
 Are there any drawbacks to OpenVPN?
 Besides the complexity of installing it and getting it right.
 - Let me think, you do have to have a static incoming port
 that will accept connections from known and unknown people.
 - Can you use Dine DNS or some other solution
 if you don't have a static port?
 - Well, now that's a static IP, I'm in a static port,
 I'm sorry, okay.
 - Right, and you actually do that by opening up
 your firewall, port forward.
 - Well, but I'm just saying that, you know,
 Hamachi doesn't require you to have any static port forwarding
 through your router or your firewall, any solution
 where you're running a server on your LAN,
 whether it's iPIG's server or the OpenVPN server,
 it will absolutely require that you run a port forward through.
 Now, I don't think it's a problem 'cause this thing
 is very well hardened, it's been scrutinized,
 it's open source, but again, you want to pick
 some wacky port that only you know,
 so that's unlikely to be found.
 Just, you know, a little obscurity doesn't hurt.
 You also would want to run a dynamic DNS
 and many of the contemporary routers
 now allow you to set up a dying DNS account
 and they will maintain that for you.
 - That's the static IP we were talking about.
 - Exactly, so that if your ISP did change your router's IP
 and you were away from home, you'd be screwed,
 you wouldn't have any idea what IP
 to use to connect to your home network.
 But if your router supports dynamic DNS
 or you run a client on your own machine,
 which will do the same job,
 then you'll always have your own domain name,
 you know, bobshomenetwork.dinedns.org or whatever,
 which will always be pointing to your router's IP,
 making sure that you're able to access it remotely.
 - It's a lot better than trying to get your spouse
 to run IP config, trust me.
 (laughing)
 - Well, and you would also want that
 if you were using the IPig solution.
 I encourage people to take a look at IOPIS's IPig.
 It's badly named, but it really worked well for me
 in my brief run-through yesterday.
 And so far the security architecture looks very solid.
 - Details on how to use OpenVPN
 will be available on your site in the show notes.
 - Excruciating details.
 - What do you anticipate?
 You're not gonna work on that through Christmas, are you?
 - That's all I'm doing.
 - Steve. - I'm working on it.
 - Open, I'm rolling up my sleeves.
 - Steve, you're the kind of guy
 that goes to a Chinese restaurant on Christmas day, aren't you?
 - I am, in fact, Sam Wu, my favorite place
 is Open 365 days a year.
 On Thanksgiving, on Christmas, on New Year's, you name it.
 - So you're looking for help with the matcha,
 you're open VPN.
 Christmas day, we have a date at Sam Wu's.
 - No, don't leap or steal alone.
 (laughing)
 He'll be reading a little science fiction,
 I hope, and taking a break.
 - So, but I will be setting up a Linux machine
 from scratch and doing the Linux machine.
 - Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
 You're gonna set up a Linux machine?
 - Well, I'm sorry, I met free BSD.
 - Okay.
 - The news group server that I talked about
 at the beginning of the show, news.grc.com,
 that's a free BSD Unix machine.
 Free BSD is my, you know, Linux slash Unix style platform
 of choice. - I was getting famous
 for a moment there.
 I thought the world was coming to an end.
 - Oh, I do it all the time.
 I love free BSD.
 - Yeah, free BSD is great.
 And we Mac users know a little bit about BSD
 'cause that's what's underlying, Darwin.
 - That's right.
 - Okay, are we complete now?
 Do we have everything we need to know?
 - I think we're done.
 (sighs)
 - The VPNs have been covered.
 I so decree it. (laughs)
 - Now, what we'll do is we will touch on this.
 I mean, VPN. - It's not going away.
 - Exactly, VPN is a core topic for security now
 and for us.
 You know, you and I roam around, we're telecommuters,
 we want security, so listeners don't need to worry
 that they're questions that they've asked
 are never gonna be answered.
 - No, no, no, no, yeah.
 - We're never coming back here.
 I mean, and as we live here, this is where we live.
 - Yes, I mean, VPN is a core technology.
 We're not gonna drop it as I learn more about IPG,
 as I learn more about OpenVPN and I'm posting things,
 we'll be touching on it, but we've got a whole bunch
 of cool stuff lined up for the beginning of next year
 and security now.
 And of course, next week we'll do our Q&A
 and we'll talk about some more of the users' questions.
 - Well, and I also see why we needed to do the early chapters
 to get to this part because there is so much to understand
 about what's going on, the pros and cons, the negatives,
 the security risks, you have to understand that
 before you can even have a conversation about VPN.
 So that was well worth it.
 - Yes, and that was exactly our intent.
 And of course, we're gonna talk early on
 about security architecture.
 What is an asymmetric key?
 What is a symmetric key?
 And so one of the things that users need to be aware of
 is that we're deliberately creating a foundation here
 that will allow us to explain once it's necessary
 about OpenVPN certificates and how they work.
 It wouldn't make a lot of sense to talk about it now,
 but once we've really explained how this stuff works,
 it'll all come together.
 - If you want more information and that step-by-step
 on how to configure and run OpenVAP and grc.com/securitynow.html,
 those are the show notes and some people are confused
 by the little icons, click those little icons.
 They all do something.
 There's transcripts there, there's a 16 kilobit version
 of the show, which I know people love, I'm not sure why,
 but they love that low quality, low fidelity version.
 - Well, it's 'cause the file size is so small.
 - It's such a small, I understand.
 I'm just giving them all of this.
 And because we work so hard on audio quality here.
 And for more information about all this stuff,
 Steve's the guy, and don't forget those news groups,
 the grc.com/discussions.
 - Leo, I mean, we've got hundreds of really good people
 who hang out there, and the Usenet style news reader
 is such a joy to use.
 I'm sure, you've used a lot.
 - I still use it, oh, absolutely.
 - It's just a great way to have dialogues and conversations,
 and we do now have a security now news group
 on the GRC news server.
 - That's great.
 If you want to download the full version, of course,
 you can always get it at thisweekintech.com.
 We do thank the folks at AOL Radio for broadcasting
 security now on their podcast channel,
 and providing the bandwidth for the security now downloads,
 because there's a lot of downloads.
 And at some point, we're gonna try to put this all together
 in an anthology, maybe a CD.
 We've started to get requests from corporations
 who want to distribute them to employees and so forth.
 So we'll work on that as well.
 Next week, your questions, Steve's answers.
 Have a great and happy holiday, Steve.
 - Thank you, too, Leo.
 - Thank you so much for all the work you've done on VPNs.
 This has been really fascinating,
 and it makes me feel good when I open up my hotspot VPN
 and know that I'm safe now on the road.
 - That's what I'm using. - Yeah, that's just great.
 I'm Leo Loport for Steve Gibson.
 We hope you have the best of holidays,
 and we'll see you next week on security now.
 (upbeat music)
