 - Oh, it's such a clutch off-season pickup, Dave.
 - I was worried we'd bring back the same team.
 - I meant those blackout motorized shades.
 - Blinds.com made it crazy affordable
 to replace our old blinds.
 - Hard to install?
 - No, it was easy.
 I installed these and then got some from my mom.
 She talked to a design consultant for free
 and scheduled a professional measure and install.
 - Hall of Fame Sun.
 - They're the number one online retailer
 of custom window coverings in the world.
 - Blinds.com is the goat.
 - Visit Blinds.com now for up to 45% off-site white,
 plus a free professional measure.
 - Rules and restrictions apply.
 (bright music)
 - Podcasts you love.
 - From people you trust.
 - This is Twit.
 - This is Security Now with Steve Gibson,
 Episode 1058 for December 30th, 2025.
 A gift for the new year.
 It's time for Security Now!
 The New Year's Eve Edition Hello, I'm Leo LaPorte.
 Say hello to Mr. Steve Gibson of grc.com
 and the host of Security Now.
 - Happy New Year Steve!
 - Happy, I can't believe 2025 was gone
 and we're launching into 2026, ready or not.
 - Wow.
 Now, we figured there probably wasn't a lot
 of security news at the end of the year.
 Certainly, if there was, we covered it last week.
 So we thought we'd do something special
 for our New Year's Eve edition.
 - And we might be recovering from eggnog, so, you know.
 - Eggnog poisoning.
 - Is there any vitamin D in eggnog?
 That's the real question.
 - No.
 - Way back when, in the day,
 this goes back to the cottage days, 2009,
 when we weren't even doing video, Steve surprised me
 with the security now that was devoted not to cybersecurity,
 but to personal security, to supplements.
 How did you get into this whole thing?
 - So, shortly after Spinrite 5 was finished and published,
 it was doing well and I had a lot of time on my hands.
 I had scaled the company down to just Sue and Greg and me
 and I like, well, okay, now what?
 And it was before I was 50, I was in my late 40s
 and I remember thinking. - Oh, a young man, ah!
 - Yeah, those were the days.
 And I remember thinking, okay, when am I gonna get serious
 about focusing on my health?
 And, you know, as a scientist, as a sort of health,
 curious person, I thought, okay, I'm gonna start,
 I'm gonna study supplementation, you know,
 adding stuff to my diet because it makes sense.
 - Isn't our existing diet sufficient?
 - No.
 - That's kind of a softball question.
 - That's what they always say, oh, if you just eat properly,
 you don't have to have supplementation.
 - The problem is we massively process food,
 we're now indoors behind glass.
 I mean, we've made a huge number of changes
 to the way we operate.
 We don't get the exercise that we used to,
 we're not spending most of our day out gathering food
 or hunting and exercising.
 So we've changed our environment dramatically.
 And this, of course, it does map on to vitamin D
 because the way our bodies, as we're about to learn,
 anyone who doesn't already know,
 and it's a useful refresher, even if you kind of do,
 that like, you know, moms, you used to say,
 get outside, get in the sun, you need to get some sun.
 Well, it turns out there was a lot more to it
 than us just getting out of her hair.
 It was good for us, you know, and as we will learn,
 UVB radiation when it hits the cholesterol in our skin
 is what creates vitamin D.
 - That's an amazing thing, actually.
 - Yes, and there aren't very many,
 there aren't many good dietary sources, you know,
 I mean, and in fact-- - That's why they started
 putting in milk because-- - Exactly.
 - Yeah. - Yeah, exactly.
 Milk is vitamin D fortified
 because our government said, oh, you need some.
 Unfortunately, they had no idea how much.
 The whole RDA system is based on,
 you will die if you don't get this much of something.
 - Minimum daily requirement, yeah.
 - Yes, it is not the healthy daily requirement,
 which is one of the things that has steered
 so many people wrong.
 I think it used to be 400 IU a day.
 I know that I'll talk about this in the podcast.
 - Yeah, I don't want to steal your thunder
 'cause we're going to talk about this.
 But what I did want to talk about before we get into it
 is in the intervening 16 years since you've done this,
 is there anything new to report?
 - Yes, what I did not talk about at the time
 because it wasn't appreciated was that it's very good
 to also add some vitamin K2 in addition to D3.
 We'll be talking a lot about D2 and D3 here in a minute.
 I didn't talk about K and I've updated the vitamin D page
 on GRC, you can't go see it right now
 'cause it's in front of me, Leo,
 and I haven't put it online yet.
 But it will be online by the time people are hearing this
 to talk about the need to add some K.
 What happens is that raising your blood level of D
 also causes calcium and phosphorus
 to be more strongly absorbed from your diet.
 That increases the calcium in your blood
 and you don't want loose calcium floating around,
 it can get up to some mischief
 like plating out onto your arterial walls
 and clogging up your kidneys.
 So adding some K2,
 K2 carboxylates, two proteins,
 which have the effect of driving the calcium into your bones,
 which is where you want it to go
 and keeping it out of your arteries.
 So on the updated vitamin D page,
 I show three different strengths
 of a supplement that I am now taking
 and have been for some time.
 So I'm glad to be able to have this opportunity, Leo,
 to update people who have been following along,
 know about vitamin D, but probably need to add some K
 in order to sort of balance the effects
 of a really strong D presence.
 And we should also mention in these intervening 16 years,
 one of the things that happened,
 first of all, there has been a lot of follow-on research.
 Research has been kind of scarce
 because vitamin D doesn't cost anything
 and research does cost something.
 - How many make any money on it?
 - Yeah, but one of the things that we saw,
 aside from many of our listeners
 who did follow the advice in the original podcast
 and added some vitamin D to their diet,
 who then, after going through the winter,
 reported that, wow, for the first time in their memory,
 they didn't come down with the common cold or sniffles,
 or if they expose their whole family to more D,
 nobody got sick.
 So that was just anecdotally interesting.
 But the other thing that we learned is that COVID status,
 it's also often, it's always necessary to remind people
 that correlation is not causation.
 So we don't know that it was vitamin D
 that created far better outcomes
 for those who got COVID than those who had low vitamin D status.
 It could be that people who took vitamin D
 also tended to stand on their head more often
 and that that was actually the reason that COVID was better.
 We don't know, but I believe because we also know
 that vitamin D is a very strong immune support vitamin
 which actually is not a vitamin.
 I explain all this in the podcast that it's actually a hormone.
 It was completely misunderstood in the beginning,
 but we still call it vitamin D even though it's not.
 Anyway, we saw some real effect during COVID
 of vitamin D status.
 Those who had high vitamin D status
 had much better COVID outcomes.
 So anyway, vitamin D3, K2,
 check out the vitamin D page at GRC,
 which I've updated with some recommendations
 for which supplements to take.
 And with that, Leo, let's go for a blast from the past.
 - Blast from the past, grc.com for the vitamin D page.
 Go to research health, you'll see vitamin D.
 It will be updated after the show.
 Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is a very appropriate way
 for us to spend the New Year's Eve.
 You might be having a little something later than the evening
 enjoying yourself a little bit.
 Maybe you did last night.
 Let's listen.
 And I did want to mention, you know,
 you hear a lot of ads for vitamins
 on a lot of other people's podcasts.
 This is not an ad, but I should also mention
 we are not doctors and so you should always check
 with your health professionally medical professional
 before embarking on any health regimen, including this.
 But I see most doctors will encourage you.
 - Yes, and a good example is that I mentioned K2.
 The K vitamins are blood thinners.
 And I'm sorry, no, they are the reverse.
 They are blood clotters.
 So if you are on a blood thinner,
 a prescription blood thinner.
 - Warfarin or something like that, yeah.
 - Warfarin, exactly.
 And that's the example I give on this updated page
 'cause I do caution people that if you're taking
 a subscription blood thinners, check with a physician
 before you--
 - Send a note to your doc saying,
 I'm thinking of 5,000 IU vitamin D
 and I'm thinking of taking K2.
 Is that okay with my existing medications and so forth?
 - Speaking of which, that's the other thing that has changed.
 I remember asking my physician back then for a vitamin D test.
 When I did my just my annual blood test and he said,
 what?
 Why do you want that?
 Why would you care?
 Now it's routine.
 - It's true.
 It's true, my physician recommended it.
 - The world has caught up with this.
 - So we're not doctors, consult your physician.
 This is not an ad.
 We don't have an advertiser selling vitamin D
 not like those other podcasts.
 This is a man who is really an auto-diadact
 who loves researching deeply into a variety of fields
 and this is the result of his research back in time.
 - Is this my current appearance?
 - Yes.
 - People are wondering about your green hair, by the way.
 - Generally.
 - We'll talk about that.
 - Without further ado, let's take a time travel trip back
 to 2009.
 - There will be no video this is audio only,
 but Anthony has prepared a lovely video,
 kind of geek you'll log for you.
 So if you're watching on YouTube, you can see that.
 And Steve will reconvene after with some final thoughts
 and well wishes.
 Thank you, Steve Gibson.
 And now back in time.
 - At Sierra, I discovered top workout gear
 at incredible prices, which might lead to another discovery.
 Your headphones haven't been connected this whole time.
 Awkward.
 Discover top brands at unexpectedly low prices.
 Sierra, let's get moving.
 - New Year, same extra value meals at McDonald's.
 So now get two snack wraps, plus fries,
 and a medium soft drink for just $8.
 - For the limited time only, prices and participation
 may vary, prices may be higher in Hawaii, Alaska,
 and California, and for delivery.
 - Hey, don't let me interrupt.
 I know we're having a blast here, reliving 2025.
 But I thought this would be a good time
 to mention something we do every year around this time.
 That's very important to us and to our ad sales.
 It's our Twitch survey.
 We do it because we don't really, and no podcast does,
 know anything about you.
 That's, I think, a good thing.
 We respect your privacy.
 But we also would like to know a little bit about you
 to the degree you're willing to help us out.
 Just some basic information that helps us go
 to advertisers and say things like,
 well, 80% of our audience is IT decision makers,
 that kind of thing.
 That's why we do this annual survey.
 It should only take a few minutes of your time.
 As I said, it is one of the ways you can contribute
 to keeping Twitch on the air.
 If you would like to, before too long,
 in the next couple of weeks, do it now while you're watching.
 Go to twit.tv/survey26.
 It's our annual 2026 Twitch listener and viewer survey.
 It's very important to us.
 And I thank you, I really appreciate it.
 And of course, if you don't want to do it,
 or there's questions you don't want to answer,
 that's fine too.
 But anyway, you can help us out.
 We appreciate it.
 All right, now, back to the show.
 - This is the first episode.
 This is number 209, the first episode of year five.
 And we're gonna do something different.
 We're gonna do something different.
 This week and only this week,
 I don't want to worry and freak out our listeners,
 but something has really come onto my radar
 that I almost feel I have an obligation just to share once.
 I mean, I'm taking action on it with myself, my friends,
 my family, everyone who's important to me.
 And so our listeners are important to me.
 And I want to, if nothing else, sort of plant a seed
 that may take root, that it may be a couple years from now,
 when they hear something else is like,
 "Oh, now I know that's important."
 Whereas, you know, I might tend to think,
 "Well, Gibson's not a doctor,
 "so what does he know about this?"
 And I'm not, I'm just a sort of a health hobbyist.
 - As we all should be, since it is our health.
 - Well, yeah, that's exactly.
 I stumbled on something which is,
 I think very important, I'm not gonna go overboard about it,
 but I want to just spend this podcast,
 sort of what I've said in my piece,
 and I've done two months worth of research every day
 on the issue, and I want to explain what's going on.
 Run through some of the studies which have been done.
 I've put together a page on GRC,
 which covers this topic,
 so that everything that I'm talking about,
 I've got links to so people can follow up
 and do additional research if they're so motivated.
 If not, I completely understand.
 There's a whole spectrum of people
 from people who just think,
 "Oh, well, whatever happens happens,"
 to people who are real interventionists
 and taking hundreds of supplements a day,
 and everything in between.
 So what I can promise is, as always,
 a podcast which is really, I believe,
 will be thought provoking and interesting
 for anybody who has a body.
 - Wow.
 All right, Steve, why, why, why are you so tan?
 What's going on?
 - Well, okay, to give a little bit of background here,
 everyone who's been listening to this podcast for years
 knows that I focus on code writing
 and computers and technology.
 A hobby of mine, which I've become increasingly focused on
 as I've been aging, is health.
 And in fact, really Leo, it began when I was flying up
 to visit you in Toronto and appear on Canadian TV
 with Roger's cable, I'd be at the airport
 and seeing people who were really, I mean, older than I,
 but not lots older than I,
 who were having trouble moving around.
 They were already being really careful
 standing up and sitting down and moving slowly.
 And I thought, okay, I think at that point,
 I was probably 50 or maybe my very late 40s,
 and today I'm 54.
 And I remember just deciding, making a promise with myself
 that I am not going to be that person when I'm that age.
 And I'm literally willing to do anything it takes
 every single day so that I'm able to jump around
 more or less as I am now as I continue aging.
 And my focus is not on trying to live as long
 as I possibly can.
 I'm really not very focused on that at all.
 I don't care how long I live.
 I mean, more is better.
 But if you think of a chart that shows your quality
 of life over time so that the horizontal axis
 is your life running from birth to death
 and the vertical axis is how you feel,
 your physical wellbeing.
 You can imagine somebody who just like,
 I don't know, who smokes their whole life,
 who abuses alcohol and drugs doesn't take care of themselves.
 They might have a relatively, like for example,
 a straight line decline from birth to death
 where they just don't age well
 and they're not having a great time
 toward the end of their life.
 My goal would be to keep the slope of that line
 as horizontal as possible.
 That is keep the, keep health up as high as I can
 for as long as I can.
 And then to have it just drop off a cliff,
 kill me in a week when it's finally time.
 But the point is that you want to,
 from a math standpoint,
 you want to maximize the area under that curve.
 You want, because that's the most health you can have
 for the length of time that you're alive.
 So, my focus on health,
 which I've now had really to a much greater degree
 since I turned 50, because it was like,
 okay, I've got the time, I've virtualized GRC,
 my employees are working at home,
 I'm able to work with a great deal of freedom.
 I have, there's no excuse not to exercise,
 not to make sure I'm eating well,
 not to, and not to do some research
 since I've got the internet now, we all do.
 And it's just an amazing,
 it makes this information so much more available.
 So, I subscribe to a number of newsletters
 and I've been focused on, you know,
 various aspects of health.
 I pretty much knew about cardio, you know,
 years and years ago and I've tried to keep myself in shape.
 And what happened about maybe about three months ago
 was I just sort of bumped on the radar screen
 where various mentions of vitamin D,
 which was not something I'd ever looked at or thought about.
 I was actually more aware of things like the B vitamins
 and their importance because, you know,
 food, modern food processing tends to kill off the B vitamins,
 they're fragile, so food is fortified basically
 to put back in what, what, what processing kills.
 And, you know, I knew about E and C and,
 but somehow vitamin D had never,
 this is something I had never really looked at very much.
 But I finally got to a point a couple months ago
 where it's like, okay, you know, what's going on with this?
 And so I began to poke around and do some reading.
 And I thought, wait, whoa, wait a minute,
 this is seeming much more significant than I recognized.
 And probably about four weeks ago,
 so about four weeks into this,
 I decided that, you know, this was,
 this was something that I really needed to understand.
 And I also at some point figured I need to involve
 my family and friends and ultimately this podcast.
 So just for one week, I need to beg our listeners indulgence.
 I'm going to, I want to share what I have learned
 and see if, you know, for the sake of information,
 maybe it will resonate with some people,
 maybe at some point in the future,
 when other information surfaces,
 it'll go, hey, wait a minute.
 I remember Steve talking about this, you know,
 he thought it was important.
 These other people think it's important, you know,
 maybe that will, will, you know,
 be enough to catalyze some thought.
 So there's, there's so much that's important about this.
 First of all, there's a real problem with it
 in that it's not a vitamin at all.
 Never was, never has been.
 What is, what is a vitamin?
 What is a, what is the definition of a vitamin?
 By definition, a vitamin is something which you,
 you, you do not make endogenously that as you do,
 your body does not make it.
 It's something from, from that you must acquire
 through nutrition from outside sources.
 - And it's an amino acid too, right?
 Isn't that what it means?
 Vital amino acid.
 Maybe not where the word comes from.
 But I, but I do know that it's got to be a dietary source.
 Well, what happened was that it was discovered
 because of a chronic deficiency in an unknown substance
 as we became more industrialized
 and people moved from rural settings into cities
 and especially as children were employed in buildings
 like in factories, they began getting rickets
 which is a severe, you know, underdevelopment
 of skeletal bones.
 Now, what happened was that there was that,
 the discovery that cod liver oil cured this malady
 that, that children had.
 And so for generations, you know,
 parents, mothers would like force their kids
 to have a tablespoon of cod liver oil.
 - I remember that from the Three Stooges.
 - Yeah, and our gang, yeah, our gang.
 - Nasty, oily tasting stuff, you really don't want it,
 but you know, but because it turns out
 that it's vitamin, this thing called vitamin D
 and it's such a shame that it's been lumped in
 with the vitamins because it is a steroid hormone.
 - Really?
 - It is a, it is a, in fact, it is the most powerful
 steroid hormone in the human body.
 It is so powerful that when measured,
 the units of measurement of the active form
 and I'll explain what the metabolic process is in a second,
 but the metabolic form is measured in pico grams per milliliter.
 That is, you know, we have grams,
 then we have milligrams as a thousandth,
 micrograms as a millionth,
 nanograms as a billionth, pico grams is a trillionth.
 So it's on the order of 20 to 50 trillionths of a gram
 in our blood.
 I mean, amazingly little of this goes a long way,
 but it is found in almost no dietary sources.
 That is, we cannot get D from our diet.
 It turns out that fatty fish is a source of D,
 but where it comes from, the way we get it
 is from the sun and which is,
 which I think is really interesting
 because the first known application for vitamin D
 and really the only place where it has received
 lots of attention is in our body's calcium metabolism.
 You know, it's generally felt that all life on earth
 came from the sea, first started in the oceans,
 evolved in the oceans, you know, and then literally
 crawled out onto land and needed to adapt.
 Well, the ocean is a rich calcium bath.
 And so calcium is a fundamental component
 of, you know, the way we operate.
 And our bodies, the human body manages
 and maintains the concentration of calcium
 to the best of its ability within relatively narrow margins.
 We need to have enough calcium from our diet,
 which is easy to get, but you have to have vitamin D
 in addition to calcium in order to build bone.
 D is inextricably linked to calcium metabolism.
 And so, but for a long time, for hundreds of years,
 that's the only thing that we knew that it did.
 Well, looking back at sort of early humanity,
 we also know that we evolved in sub-Saharan equatorial East Africa.
 That's where that's sort of the cradle of humankind.
 It is believed that when we were coming out
 of being apes covered with fur,
 that as we evolved to be larger and have more muscle mass,
 we began to have a problem with cooling
 because we were generating our larger muscles
 were generating too much heat.
 So evaporative cooling wasn't, it was having a problem
 if we were covered with fur.
 So we literally lost our fur in favor of skin
 and more evaporative capability.
 The problem with that was
 that we were then being exposed to intense sunlight,
 since our skin was no longer being protected by fur.
 So what started out as being lighter skinned,
 we ended up developing a much more rich melanin content.
 Melanin is the pigmentation in skin.
 And so we ended up literally becoming black
 in order to deal with the constant powerful equatorial sun
 in East Africa.
 And so the blackness of our skin allowed us
 to tolerate the sun.
 But ever since the beginning,
 we were also using sun that is the ultraviolet radiation
 for fundamental chemical reactions
 which take place in our skin.
 A precursor of cholesterol called 7D hydro cholesterol
 or 7DHC that exists in our skin,
 in abundance in youth, and we lose it
 as we get increasingly older.
 That 7D hydro cholesterol is when it is zapped
 by an ultraviolet photon,
 it converts that 7D hydro cholesterol
 is converted into an early form
 of what unfortunately we have labeled vitamin D.
 It's not stable in that form.
 And so it shortly changes its bonds around
 and just under thermal isomerization
 converts into something called cole calciferol
 which is the form of vitamin D
 that you can also get in a supplement.
 That's transported to our liver
 where our liver changes it through a process
 known as hydroxylation into the vitamin D
 which is measured in our bloodstream,
 something called 25 hydroxy vitamin D.
 And that's sort of the bulk storage form of this chemical.
 Our kidneys takes it the next step further,
 hydroxylates it again
 and turns it into this super potent steroid hormone.
 Now, that's involved directly.
 It's that hormone which is involved
 with the regulation of calcium metabolism and our bones.
 It turns out though,
 that many other organ systems in our body
 also have the ability to deal directly with vitamin D.
 And this is the information which is finally
 due to the advancing of our medical science
 finally becoming clear to people.
 I want to shift gears here for a second
 and run through a number of recent studies
 which have been done just to give people some sense
 for the pervasiveness of the influence of this.
 I have a, I'm holding a textbook, 450 pages
 titled vitamin D, physiology, molecular biology
 and clinical applications.
 I've read so many journal articles
 and studies that I'm becoming sort of well-versed
 with the names of these people.
 And in fact, if I look at a book,
 a popular text on vitamin D,
 it's like, oh yeah, I know where that chart came from.
 I remember seeing that chart in the original source material.
 - Wow.
 - So this is chapter 13,
 where he's talking about non-calcemic actions
 of 125D hydroxyl vitamin D3.
 Okay, that's the output from our liver,
 I'm sorry, the output from our kidney,
 the final stage, which is this powerful steroid hormone.
 And he says, under historical perspective,
 when 12050H2D was discovered,
 it was assumed that specific vitamin D receptors
 would be present in calcium regulating organs,
 including the intestine, bone and kidney.
 In 1979, stumped at all,
 and then he has a reference to the back of the chapter
 where he talks about that study,
 reported on the localization of radio-labeled vitamin D
 in vitamin D deficient tissues
 and found that the radio-labeled vitamin D
 was localized in the nuclei of cells
 in the small intestine, kidney and bone,
 exactly as expected.
 But, remarkably, they also found
 by audio-radiographic analysis of frozen sections of tissues
 that this radio-tag vitamin D was also present
 in cells in the gonads, thymus, pituitary gland,
 pancreas, stomach, breast, teeth, placenta and skin.
 This observation was the impetus
 for the identification of the vitamin D receptors
 called VDRs, then this is at the genetic level,
 in all of these tissues, as well as in several tumor cell lines
 of leukemia, breast cancer, melanoma,
 squamous cell carcinoma, colon cancer and prostate cancer.
 VDR activity was also detected in cells related to immunity,
 including circulating monocytes,
 activated T and B lymphocytes and macrophages,
 which is all part of our, the way our immune system functions.
 So, to give some sense for what is beginning
 to be understood, and I just jumped to chapter 22
 under epidemiology of cancer risk and vitamin D,
 it reads, "A nested case control study
 was conducted using subjects
 from the Johns Hopkins Operation Clue cohort.
 This cohort consisted of 25,620 health adult residents
 of Washington, yeah, it does as health adult.
 - It should be healthy, obviously, yeah.
 - Yeah, healthy adult residents of Washington County, Maryland,
 who provided samples of serum, meaning their blood,
 between 1974 and 1975,
 serum samples were thawed for all cases of colon cancer.
 So, what happened is decades later, this study was done.
 So, serum samples from back in '74, '75 were thawed
 for all cases of colon cancer and for two controls per case,
 meaning other people who did not have colon cancer
 and matched for age, race, sex, county of residence
 and date of serum collection.
 Sera, meaning plural of serum, blood samples,
 were analyzed blindly for 25 hydroxy vitamin D.
 Okay, that's that main circulating vitamin D,
 which is what's measured.
 That's the output of the liver
 before it goes into the kidney.
 That's sort of the storage form.
 Individuals whose 25 hydroxy vitamin D levels
 were greater than 20 nanograms per milliliter,
 and I'll talk about these numbers in a second.
 Get this, greater than 20 nanograms per milliliter
 had one third the risk of colon cancer compared with those,
 one third the risk of colon cancer
 compared with those with lower concentrations.
 Okay, so there's one.
 A different study, this is from the American Journal
 of Clinical Nutrition, 2004,
 reads most to give some context,
 I'll sort of give a little more coming into this.
 Most humans depend on sun exposure
 to satisfy their requirements for vitamin D.
 Solar ultraviolet B photons, that is UVB,
 are absorbed by seven dehydrocholesterol in the skin,
 leading to its transformation to pre-vitamin D3,
 which is rapidly converted to vitamin D3.
 Season, latitude, time of day, skin pigmentation,
 aging, sunscreen use, and glass,
 that is the presence of glass between you and the sun
 since UVB is blocked by glass,
 all influence the cotaneous production of vitamin D3.
 Once formed, vitamin D3 is metabolized in the liver
 to 25 hydroxy vitamin D,
 and then in the kidney to its biologically active form,
 125 di hydroxy vitamin D.
 Vitamin D deficiency is an unrecognized epidemic
 among both children and adults in the United States.
 Vitamin D deficiency not only causes rickets among children,
 but also precipitates and exacerbates osteoporosis
 among adults and causes the painful bone disease,
 osteomylicia.
 Vitamin D deficiency has been associated
 with increased risks of deadly cancers,
 cardiovascular disease, multiple sclerosis,
 rheumatoid arthritis, and type 1 diabetes malitis.
 Maintaining blood concentrations of 25 hydroxy vitamin D
 above 80 nanomoles per liter,
 which is in the literature,
 sometimes they describe the concentration
 as nanomoles per liter,
 but often also as nanograms per milliliter.
 The conversion is 2.5,
 so 80 nanomoles per liter is about 30 nanograms per milliliter.
 Says not only is the maintenance greater than that
 important for maximizing intestinal calcium absorption,
 but also may be important for providing the extra renal
 one alpha hydroxylase that is present in most tissues
 to produce 125 di hydroxy vitamin D3.
 What he's saying there is that this is necessary
 for vitamin D to act directly on all these other tissues
 rather than being used for calcium regulation,
 calcium homostasis.
 Although chronic excessive exposure
 to sunlight increases the risk of non-melanoma skin cancer,
 the avoidance of all direct sun exposure
 increases the risk of vitamin D deficiency,
 which can have serious consequences.
 Monitoring serum 25 hydroxyl vitamin D concentration yearly
 should help reveal vitamin D deficiencies.
 So that's sort of a bit of overview,
 but here's another,
 this is titled perspective study of predictors
 of vitamin D status and cancer incidence
 and mortality in men.
 And I'm gonna skip the preamble and just just,
 and I have all of this.
 I've got links to all of this on the page at GRC.
 It says from multivariate models,
 an increment of 25 nanomoles per liter
 in predicted vitamin D level
 was associated with a 17% reduction
 in total cancer incidence.
 I got lost my track here, oh, incidence.
 And they go into the statistics,
 a 29% reduction in total cancer mortality
 with a relative risks of 0.71,
 that is, if you had an increase in serum D levels
 and a 45% reduction in digestive system cancer mortality,
 0.55.
 And then they summarize showing that the results
 were similar when they controlled further
 for body mass index and physical activity level.
 So basically saying that when all other influences
 were removed, vitamin D level in the blood
 had a direct bearing on cancer incidence.
 And there's like studies which describe similarly
 that higher levels of vitamin D
 are connected to lower levels
 of many different types of cancer.
 Pancreatic, colon, rectal, stomach, prostate, lung,
 breast, bladder, uterine, esophageal, kidney,
 multiple myeloma.
 I mean, it just goes on and on and on.
 There was one doctor who is at the Atascadero.
 He's an MD and psychiatrist
 at the Atascadero State Mental Hospital, John Cannell.
 Because he knew that vitamin D
 positively influenced mood,
 we've all heard of seasonal affective disorder
 where people get kind of moody and gloomy in the winter,
 not surprisingly when there's much less exposure to sunlight.
 And when the sun is at a greater angle,
 not as often or as much overhead,
 it turns out that the atmosphere absorbs UVB.
 And so if the sun is not almost directly overhead,
 you're not getting much vitamin D.
 So he had his ward on vitamin D
 just for its psychological benefits.
 A flu went through the hospital,
 that was bad enough that wards needed to be quarantined.
 He said, I've seen two interviews where he mentions how
 the ward to one side of him had such a flu outbreak
 that it was quarantined.
 The ward to the other side of him
 and the ward across the hall as well as on the floor below.
 He knew that his patients had had social interactions
 with the inmates in the other wards
 and the nurses were cross covering his ward
 and the other ward, so he figured that his people
 were similarly being exposed to this influenza,
 not one single patient that he was treating in his ward
 came down with the flu despite the fact that it was epidemic
 and to the level of quarantining.
 And now as a consequence,
 everyone at Atascadero receives vitamin D supplementation
 because of the strong evidence for its immunizational effect.
 So I mentioned to you when we were briefly talking
 about this last week that there's even a theory now
 about where Caucasians came from
 because it is believed that humans evolved in Africa
 with deep, dark, melanin-rich skin
 which balanced the strength of the equatorial sun.
 It is now we understand that this hormone,
 which unfortunately has been mislabeled a vitamin
 to its, which is I think largely responsible
 for a lot of people thinking, oh, well,
 I probably get enough of this in my diet,
 I'm not gonna worry about it,
 this hormone has always been generated
 by the sun's UVB interaction with our skin.
 And as we evolved, our population grew,
 we began to migrate away from equatorial Africa,
 north.
 What we now believe happened is that as we left the equator,
 we, the UVB radiation that we evolved under.
 I mean, literally, just like oxygen.
 I mean, that important, you know, as I run through,
 I look at all these things that we are beginning
 to understand are relating to low levels of vitamin D,
 you might think, wait a minute, you know,
 how can vitamin D fix that?
 Well, that's asking the question wrong.
 It's that we always had much higher levels
 of vitamin D in our blood than we do now
 because we evolved naked in the sun.
 I mean, and even now, here we are in industrialized mode,
 basically living in dark UVB blackout caves,
 you know, called our homes and offices
 where no UVB radiation gets in,
 where we're getting much less sunlight
 than we were even, even a couple hundred years ago
 when we were out farming and getting exposure to the sun.
 And of course, unfortunately, even more recently,
 there's been a great public relations campaign
 warning about the dangers of skin cancer
 you must put on sunscreen when you go outside.
 So there have, there's actually been many other things
 even recently, which have begun to happen
 which confuse people.
 For example, autism has been noted that it's on the rise.
 One theory is that, oh, well, we're just diagnosing it more.
 We're more aware of it.
 So we're more, you know, we're looking more closely.
 However, what they have found is
 that the incidence of autism directly correlates
 with the latitude of the mother of autistic children
 during pregnancy.
 The further away mothers are from the equator,
 greater incidence of autism in their children.
 - Now, correlation doesn't equal causation.
 - No, that's a very good point.
 And that's something we have to keep in mind.
 My favorite example of that is that imagine
 that someone knew nothing about, you know,
 like an alien came down, knew nothing about, you know,
 the way we operate and was looking like,
 was like watching the street, a random street in New York.
 And noticed that suddenly everyone put their umbrellas up
 and oh, look, then windshield wipers all began going
 on the cars.
 Well, if you didn't know any better,
 you didn't understand anything about what was really going
 on, you could say that raising umbrellas
 caused windshield wipers to go on when, in fact--
 - It's the other way around.
 It's completely different, I mean, there's something else
 that is related.
 But, and see, one of the problems with where we are,
 and I mean, we're beginning to understand the significance.
 The problem is that you cannot patent vitamin D.
 That there, it is incredibly difficult
 to perform expensive studies.
 - There's no incentive to do that.
 - Yes, there is no financial incentive.
 There was a study that was done.
 So it's left to universities and research hospitals
 that have limited funding, especially now.
 There was a study between the years of 2000 and 2005
 that took 1,179 women in Nebraska,
 which I think I recall is at 41 degrees north latitude.
 This was a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study.
 That's the gold standard of studies.
 It gave, it divided the women in half.
 It gave half of them a placebo and calcium.
 And the other half, 1,100 IU per day of vitamin D and calcium.
 If you ignore, oh, and these were all,
 these were in the year 2000 when this began,
 they were all, as far as anyone knew, cancer-free.
 If you ignore and throw out the first year
 of any cancers that were found on the premise
 that those were already in the process of developing,
 during the rest of this study,
 the women who were taking the vitamin D plus calcium
 had 0.23% incidence of any type of cancer, 0.23.
 - Is that why I presume that's well below normal?
 - No, I mean, compared to the other half of the women.
 - Oh, I see.
 - So if the other half of the women
 were you established their rate as 1.0,
 so it's less than one quarter,
 the number of incidents of cancer.
 So these studies exist.
 They're being published in by Harvard
 and conducted by Harvard in the American Journal
 of Clinical Nutrition, not flaky, strange publications
 that no one's heard of, major fundamental research.
 But the problem is you can't patent vitamin D.
 The other problem is that the rate of production
 of vitamin D as we age really falls off.
 Now, I should mention something that I haven't said before,
 and that is that just this morning,
 I had my fourth weekly test.
 I didn't get in the mail my third results,
 which would have indicated where I was
 after my second week.
 But what I did starting four weeks ago,
 I'm sorry, three weeks ago, today, literally,
 was I had a reference vitamin D level taken.
 I knew after all the research I was doing
 that I was going to be putting myself on vitamin D
 to a much greater level of vitamin D
 than is in my multivitamin.
 One of the problems with supplementation,
 and there is a problem with supplementation,
 is that vitamin D can be toxic in very high doses.
 It is fat soluble, so it's not excreted from our body
 on an ongoing basis.
 So like any fat soluble vitamin,
 there's a concern that it will build up
 in your tissues over time.
 Nobody has ever become vitamin D toxic from sun exposure,
 but it has been determined that for example,
 half an hour in the sun will generate about 10,000 IU,
 10,000 international units worth of vitamin D,
 which then over the course of a couple of days,
 enters your bloodstream.
 Well, I knew that I was gonna be starting,
 I was gonna be adding some substantial vitamin D
 to my daily regimen after all this research that I have done.
 But I had no idea what my current vitamin D level was,
 and I wanted to play with generating it by the sun,
 because once I started supplementing,
 once I added vitamin D to my diet,
 well, I would never stop.
 And there were other things that I had added
 where I was thinking,
 gee, I wish I'd taken a measure beforehand,
 so I could know what it was before.
 So I thought, well, let's sort of play with this.
 So I found out to my tremendous shock
 that I am, or well, am as far as I know,
 even now, substantially deficient.
 There's four levels of vitamin D terminology.
 There's the medical community uses.
 You have deficiency, then you have insufficiency,
 sufficiency, and toxicity.
 So you obviously don't want to be toxic,
 you don't want too much.
 What you want is to be sufficient,
 and really neither insufficient nor deficient.
 And I am deficient.
 I mean, I have a great diet.
 I eat lots of salads, I like fish,
 I sort of avoid meat, I'm not afraid of it,
 but I'm doing everything I should.
 I have regular annual checkups,
 my cholesterol's where it should be,
 blood pressure's where it should be,
 a little higher than I would like it,
 but it turns out that adequate levels of vitamin D
 lowers blood pressure.
 In fact, it turns out that there is a seasonal sine wave cycle
 of blood pressure.
 The, the extent, the, the, the, the amplitude of the sine wave
 varies with latitude, and it is synchronized to the calendar.
 Vitamin, they did well know the blood pressure goes down
 in the summer and goes up in the winter.
 It is also, of course, we know that people
 tend to get colds in the winter,
 and they get the flu in the winter.
 Why?
 Well, maybe, and we don't know this,
 but it's because our vitamin D stores are depleted.
 There was one study that's, that attempted to demonstrate
 that, that playing, that watching too much television
 caused autism, that is watching TV and autism
 were, were related, and it's interesting
 because it turns out that the people who did the study
 didn't actually interview people
 for how much television they watched.
 Instead, they used the rainfall figures in the area.
 - So they correlated to rainfall, not TV watching.
 - And they, and they, they said, well,
 we don't really know how much TV kids are watching,
 but probably, - We figure they're inside.
 - When it's raining, they're inside.
 What they were inadvertently doing was they were measuring
 probably the amount of sun that these kids were getting.
 And that's where the correlation was.
 In fact, they, when this was pointed out,
 they have revised their study in order to correct that.
 So the, the proper level of vitamin D
 is something which has, is still unknown, believe it or not.
 The way the RDA, the recommended daily allowance,
 was established, was that because we really didn't know,
 the one thing we did know was that a tablespoon
 of cod liver oil would prevent rickets.
 And since it had been given for so many generations
 for so many years and not caused a problem,
 they said, well, how much vitamin D is in cod liver oil?
 It turns out it's 400 IU.
 So that's what they said, okay,
 we'll just say that that's the recommended daily allowance.
 400 IU.
 The problem is that being in the sun for half an hour,
 supposedly generates 10,000 IU.
 So substantially more.
 And in fact, studies have been done of life guards
 and farmers in Puerto Rico that measure the actual level
 of vitamin D they have in their blood.
 And in this, in this common term of nanograms per milliliter,
 they're in the order of 50 to 70.
 So the current clinically accepted range is 32 to 100.
 100, I read the study and I've got a link to it on my page
 where the guy who did this, who set the 32 to 100,
 and you can read all about how it was established.
 And he says, well, I just set 100 sort of arbitrarily
 because it's higher than we generally see in anybody
 who has a lot of constant sun exposure.
 We don't know that it shouldn't be higher
 or that any higher level is toxic,
 but it would seem that 100 is sort of a good place
 because that's all we know at this point.
 Anyway, my first test showed me at 23.6 nanograms
 per milliliter and a week later, after a week of sun
 where I'm spending half an hour in noonday sun,
 completely exposed.
 I mean, 100% baby, the way I was born dropped to 21.3.
 I'm guessing that this is just the tolerance of the lab test.
 I'm, I'm, I hoped by this time to have the results
 of the second week, which would be the third test.
 And a week from now, I should have the results
 after the third week of the fourth.
 But for whatever reason, it doesn't look like
 I'm seeing any production.
 In the studies I've read, when you do get sufficient sunlight,
 your vitamin D level jumps up.
 It does take, you know, many weeks for it to reach
 whatever, whatever maximum it's going to.
 So it's sort of an exponential rise,
 but I would have certainly expected to see something
 after seven days of regular exposure.
 It looks to me like I'm unable to produce vitamin D.
 through being out in the sun.
 It's disturbing to me that after five years
 with my internist, my doctor who was assigned to me,
 I mean, he was fast to give me a blood test and a media,
 a so-called CBC, a complete blood count
 to look at all of the things that are, you know,
 typically considered.
 I know exactly what my HDL and LDL and triglycerides
 and, you know, all that stuff is he never checked
 my vitamin D.
 Now, maybe if something were like really off,
 like my blood calcium was off, he would have said,
 well, let's check your vitamin D.
 - That's what Dr. Mom was saying is,
 what about your serum ionized calcium?
 - Yeah, and that's where it should be.
 - Interesting.
 - Maybe that would have brought him to do it,
 but one of the, but you know, clearly I'm in a level now
 that is way low based on current thought.
 I would like to be to raise my 21
 to something between 50 and 70 and somewhere, you know,
 like 60 being a goal.
 And, you know, that's what I will likely begin doing.
 - And you think that sunbathing is the key?
 - No, no, no, this was, remember,
 this was just an experiment that I only wanted.
 - 'Cause there's other risks associated with that, of course.
 - Well, yes, there are three types, interestingly,
 there are three types of skin cancer.
 You have squamous cell carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma,
 and malignant melanoma.
 Malignant melanoma is the cancer
 that everyone worries about.
 Interestingly though, it generally appears
 on areas of the skin that are covered by clothing,
 probably because statistically, most of us have, you know,
 more than, you know, the majority of our skin covered.
 The squamous cell carcinoma and basal cell carcinoma
 is the kind that we see on our hands, arms, and face.
 It's also the kind that, you know,
 that your dermatologist can freeze off easily,
 and it's not a big deal, as long as you've got someone
 looking at your skin from time to time, you know,
 to like your doctor takes a look at you
 to make sure that you don't have any of that.
 So the UV radiation definitely damages skin.
 It can be carcinogenic, and it does generate vitamin D.
 What is believed is that as we migrated away
 from the equator, because we are so dependent
 upon vitamin D, that it became a powerful,
 natural selection factor in our evolution.
 And with, you know, we know that our evolution,
 our evolution, took millions and millions of years.
 It looks like from the studies that we've done,
 that as we left the equator,
 and populations moved north up into Europe,
 that we deep pigmented in something
 like several tens of thousands of years,
 maybe like 50,000 years.
 Because suddenly, the high melanin content we had,
 which was protecting us from the sun at the equator,
 was also now blocking our ability to produce vitamin D,
 which is a critical, I mean an absolutely critical component,
 I believe, of human health.
 We know when it's really low,
 that you develop chronic problems
 with calcium management and bone.
 Your body takes calcium from your bones
 to preferentially manage your blood calcium level,
 because that's even more important.
 So your bones represent essentially a calcium well,
 or a calcium repository,
 that if you don't have enough vitamin D
 and/or calcium in your diet,
 that's, there are mechanisms that'll pull calcium
 from your bones, which you don't want.
 But now we're learning that there are,
 that is very likely that this very powerful
 and necessary hormone has been incorporated
 into many other systems in our body.
 And I imagine that many of us listening to this podcast
 are in the same position I was.
 I mean, I'm not a sun bather, I'm not out in the sun.
 I actually, I mean, I get a little bit of sun,
 I'm not afraid of it, and I wanna make sure I don't burn.
 But the problem is that, again, we're in a information deficit
 because studying these things costs money,
 and you can't patent the sun, you can't patent the sunlight.
 - There's an analog because we know that salt
 is very good for treating a lot of things
 like cold sores and so forth.
 But nobody's gonna study that
 because salt is free and cheap and unbandable.
 - Well, what's really interesting
 is there are vitamin D analogs
 which the pharmaceutical company are exploring.
 - Sure, yeah.
 - They're making little tiny money on that.
 - Exactly, 'cause that they can patent.
 And in fact, there are now some effective psoriasis medications
 which are all based on vitamin D analogs.
 So they tweak the molecule a little bit.
 There is a problem with high levels of vitamin D
 because as I mentioned, it has toxic in really high levels.
 But they wanna use the very powerful,
 the 125D hydroxy vitamin D
 which is what your kidney produces.
 They have found that it is extremely good
 at fighting cancer.
 The problem is if you gave someone enough of it
 to fight cancer, it would turn you into limestone.
 So that's not a good thing.
 So what they're trying to do is they're trying
 to find a variant of this vitamin D
 which will have the effects they want
 and mitigate the effects they don't.
 If they can do that, then they can patent it
 and create a new drug.
 I'm not averse at all to using the medical system
 if I need to.
 I'd much rather stay healthy,
 not need major surgical intervention of any kind.
 And so vitamin D will be part of my regimen going forward.
 And the takeaway, I think,
 would be for those listeners who have a doctor,
 who are the kinds of people
 who know what their cholesterol is and so forth,
 next time you go, say,
 "Hey, let's find out what my vitamin D level is."
 And I'm sure that if my doctor knew that I was 21,
 he'd say, "Oh, I mean, even the blood test results
 shows the level 32 to 100 and shows me as extremely low."
 He would have said, "Oh, well, we probably need to put you
 "on some vitamin D, give you some vitamin D supplementation
 "and we'll retest in 90 days."
 There's no indication that it could hurt.
 And my sense is it could only help.
 - So you're gonna start taking supplements?
 - Yes, in fact, today, I did my last,
 I've done my three weeks in the sun.
 I don't have the results.
 - I still like getting the sun at now.
 I have Italian skin, and of course I get checked every year
 for skin cancer, but I like getting some sun.
 I just, it feels good.
 - Well, it turns out that it also releases,
 being in the sun releases a,
 shoot, it's a form of narcotic.
 - Yay, no wonder it feels so good.
 - You don't know, I mean, again, it's not surprising.
 I mean, we were meant to be in the sun.
 We evolved in the sun.
 I think more than anything else, as from a.
 - It's a natural, it does, it feels good.
 It feels like this is where I should be.
 Same thing with the ocean.
 I feel good when I'm at the ocean.
 - Well, and you know, I mean, we grew up with our parents
 saying, "Oh, go outside and get some sunshine."
 - Not anymore.
 - Not anymore.
 - Oh, our kids are slathered with sunscreen.
 They wear big bonnets.
 I mean, they don't get the sun anymore.
 - Yep, I mean, so there really has been a change.
 There are, there is study after study
 that demonstrates that cancer, autism, allergies,
 diabetes, an amazing number of maladies
 have latitudinal correlations.
 And they've even noticed, for example,
 that even at a high latitude, if you're at high altitude,
 then the incidences of these problems drop
 because you've got less atmosphere between you and the sun.
 And the other problem is, you cannot get sun
 in the sun that matters in the morning or in the afternoon.
 It's got to be when the sun is almost directly overhead.
 - Oh, that's interesting.
 - The reason is that there's this beautiful gap
 in atmospheric absorption, right through what we not
 surprisingly call the visible spectrum.
 And, you know, we call it the visible spectrum
 'cause that's what we see.
 But you'll notice we don't see in the ultraviolet.
 I mean, the ultraviolet and the visible
 are like, they're the same range of radiation.
 We don't see in the ultraviolet
 because it's dark most of the time in the ultraviolet.
 It's only briefly light for a few hours around noon.
 And then the sun's angle becomes such
 that the UV radiation, the UVB,
 which is between 290 and about 320 nanometers,
 it's almost completely cut off.
 So evolution would never give us vision
 that is only useful for a couple hours during the day.
 Instead, we see in the visible spectrum
 where which is not absorbed the way UVB is.
 And so we're able to see, for example,
 hunt by moonlight or see from the time the sun
 comes up to the time the sun sets,
 which is much more useful.
 But at the same time, that visible radiation
 doesn't have the energy
 and doesn't have the wavelength to interact with us chemically
 the way UVB does.
 So we need that UV radiation.
 And again, I wanna make sure that people understand
 I'm not suggesting, I'm not promoting
 spending time in the sun.
 It's, I was about to say that I've read some studies,
 but again, we're in a study deficit here
 that say that by the age of 50,
 our ability to produce vitamin D continuously
 and dodgenously in our skin has fallen by half.
 And that by the age of 65, it's down to 25% of what it was.
 So you cannot get the D you need through sunlight.
 And you did notice, maybe you weren't kidding,
 that I'm a little tanner.
 I've been, I was looking at how much sun I was getting
 and whether I was tanning.
 I'm after three weeks of half an hour a day,
 I have tanned a bit, not too much.
 But the problem is tanning is a regulating mechanism.
 Tanning is the production of this melanin polymer,
 which is 99.9% efficient at absorbing UVB.
 Melanin absorbs UVB and turns it harmlessly into heat.
 So it protects our skin from DNA damage.
 Unfortunately, it also protects it
 from generating vitamin D.
 - Oh, interesting.
 - So here's the problem.
 I'm clearly receiving enough sun because I'm adapting to it.
 My skin is darkening, which is my body's attempt
 to down-regulate the amount of UVB radiation that I receive.
 In the process, it's down-regulating my ability
 to produce vitamin D.
 So my point is that as I get older
 and what happens is we lose the cholesterol in our skin.
 You know how like you're so-called, you get thin skin?
 You know, it is a loss of cholesterol in our skin,
 which reduces our ability to produce vitamin D,
 yet we're still gonna be able to get tan.
 You don't lose your ability to tan.
 So what that says is that when you're no longer young
 and able to produce as much vitamin D as you did,
 no amount of sun can give it to you
 because your body is gonna tan and down-regulate,
 not only, well, down-regulate all the UVB
 that gets into your skin and to further cut off D.
 So I think the only solution is to monitor your vitamin D
 levels and supplement.
 - Ready to lead at the highest level?
 Kelly's online executive doctor of business administration
 is built for professionals who think strategically
 and lead with impact.
 Apply advanced research directly to your organization
 while earning a respected doctorate from anywhere
 with a fast track option for MBA holders.
 Tap to learn more about elevating your influence,
 your credibility and your career with Kelly's program.
 Learn more at kelly.iu.edu.
 - Chronic migraine is 15 or more headache days a month,
 each lasting four hours or more.
 - Botox, on a botulinum toxin A,
 prevents headaches and adults with chronic migraine
 before they start.
 It's not for those with 14 or fewer headache days a month.
 It prevents, on average, eight to nine headache days a month
 versus six to seven for placebo.
 - Prescription Botox is injected by your doctor.
 Effects of Botox may spread hours to weeks after injection
 causing serious symptoms.
 Alert your doctor right away has difficulty swallowing,
 speaking, breathing, eye problems or muscle weakness
 can be signs of a life-threatening condition.
 Patients with these conditions before injection
 are at highest risk.
 Side effects may include allergic reactions,
 neck and injection site pain, fatigue and headache.
 Allergic reactions can include rash,
 welts, asthma symptoms and dizziness.
 Don't receive Botox if there's a skin infection.
 Tell your doctor your medical history,
 muscle or nerve conditions,
 including ALS, Lou Gehrig's disease,
 myasthenia gravis or Lambert Eaton syndrome
 and medications including botulinum toxins
 as these may increase the risk of serious side effects.
 - Why wait?
 Ask your doctor, visit botoxproductmigraine.com
 or call 1-800-44-BOTox to learn more.
 - Now the good news is because it's not patented
 because it's inexpensive to make,
 it's very inexpensive.
 A, one of my favorite suppliers is a company called Now Foods
 and my favorite place for buying stuff is iHerb.com.
 They're great service, great delivery, very good prices.
 Now Foods has a 5,000 IU vitamin D
 which their label recommends you take one every three days.
 Taking vitamin D infrequently like that works
 because it has on the order of about a three or four week
 half life in our body.
 It lasts a long time because it's fat soluble.
 So our liver takes it up and our fat tissues,
 all of our adipose tissues dissolve the vitamin D.
 It's very easy to swallow
 because remember how concentrated it is.
 We're only talking about micrograms of D.
 It's made by in huge vats of olive oil
 because it's fat soluble.
 So they start with a huge vat of olive oil,
 pour a carefully measured amount of vitamin D in
 then dissolve that vitamin D
 and then they produce these little tiny gel caps.
 So 120 of those costs $8.80.
 Well, if you take one every three days,
 that's a year's supply of vitamin D in a useful dose.
 That would be 1,666 IU per day.
 The US government has said that even the 2,000 IU per day
 is an absolutely safe dose.
 Many nutritionists feel that that's way too low,
 but follow the label
 and then you're getting a useful amount of vitamin D
 for $8.80 for a year.
 - Yeah, yeah.
 - I just, if I, I've looked at this stuff
 and if I had to take one thing,
 if I were, I was gonna say on a desert island,
 but even on a desert island,
 I don't think I can any longer make a sufficient amount
 of vitamin D by getting, by being the sun
 'cause I'm gonna tan and that's gonna cut off
 what I would have been able to make.
 - Is there a risk to supplementing?
 - The risk? - Can you overdo it?
 - Yes, the risk is at the high end.
 And in fact, this is the conundrum
 is that our government has,
 our government does put D in stuff.
 It puts D in milk and the--
 - Aren't we getting 'cause we're all drinking Starbucks,
 getting a lot more milk than ever before.
 - Well, here's the problem is,
 milk has actually gone out of fashion
 and we're not drinking the kind of milk we do.
 Believe it or not, Ricketts has made a comeback
 in the last few years.
 - That's unbelievable.
 - Because children are not drinking milk.
 Parents are not-- - It's soda pop.
 - Exactly, exactly, you know, sugary fruit drinks.
 So the government puts, the government mandates
 that 400 IU be put in a quart of milk.
 And the problem is you would have to drink
 about 10 quarts of milk a day in order to get
 a physiologically useful amount of vitamin D.
 But here's the problem, if the government,
 'cause this is a powerful steroid hormone,
 if the government-- - Can't put more in, yeah.
 - Exactly, if the government did raise
 the levels of D that were in our food supply,
 there's a wide variation in the amount of different types
 of food that different people eat.
 Maybe there is someone who drinks quarts of milk a day.
 - So they could be doing themselves harm
 if they had too much of it.
 - If there was too much-- - If they were supplementing
 and they drank four quarts a day
 and they were getting out in the sun and on and on.
 - Yeah, I mean, I think that the only,
 I mean, the really responsible thing to do
 is to get a test that you can buy your own
 as I have been doing.
 - Oh, really? Oh, these aren't with your doctor?
 - No.
 - Do you draw blood?
 How do you get it?
 - Oh, yeah, I go to a lab every Wednesday morning
 to lab core, there's a group called Life Extension Foundation,
 LEF.org, they offer retail blood testing services.
 So you pay them, they mail you the forms
 and then you take that to a lab nearby,
 they take a vial of blood and then about five days later,
 normally this was late in this third test,
 but normally it takes five days and you get the results.
 And so, I think it's $67 for a non-member,
 $47 for a member.
 So if you were gonna do several of these,
 I think membership is $75 a year,
 so you get a discount.
 - So I know what people listening,
 what I'll do is I'm not gonna get tested,
 I'm just gonna go out and buy some vitamin D tabs.
 Is that a bad idea?
 - I don't think so.
 As long as you follow the label,
 you cannot be toxic because, for example, Walgreens
 will have a thousand IU and it'll probably say,
 take one or two a day and follow the label in your fine.
 This 5,000 IU from now foods says take one every three days.
 Because, I mean, well, for example,
 because it has the half life it does,
 some doctors will mega dose their patients monthly,
 like give them 100,000 IU,
 but I'm not recommending that.
 You absolutely would only do that under a doctor's care.
 But my point is that you can take a large dose
 and then let it be acquired by your system
 and then used over time as your blood level drops.
 It's just easier for me, for example,
 to do one every three days,
 or I will be monitoring my blood level,
 so I will probably take more
 because I wanted to find out what level I need to take
 in order to put my blood where it should be.
 So again, ask your doctor for a vitamin D test,
 get one for yourself, or think about getting some real D.
 I should mention that there are two types of D
 that you can purchase.
 There's D2, which is called ergo calcifatrol,
 or D3, which is,
 coly calcifatrol.
 D3 is what we make.
 Coly calcifatrol is the only kind you really want to take.
 It is essentially biologically identical
 to what we manufacture.
 There is some concern, for example,
 I think it's not kosher, believe it or not,
 because it's made by irradiating the lanolin from lambswool.
 Ergo calcifatrol is made from irradiating fungus.
 So it's 100% plant-based, but it's vitamin D2,
 and some studies have said that it only raises
 your vitamin D levels about 25% as high as D3.
 So D3, which is what we make when sun hits our skin,
 is substantially more effective than D2.
 So I imagine what you would find.
 For example, this now foods,
 vitamin D is vitamin D3, Walgreens, drugstores,
 in their little health section.
 What you want to look for is the coly calcifatrol.
 And 1,000 milligrams per day is without question safe.
 The US government says that up to 2,000 is safe.
 Nutritionists believe safe dosages are far higher.
 I wouldn't go there unless you knew what your blood levels
 were, you want to make sure it is possible
 to be hypersensitive to vitamin D.
 There are some genetic conditions
 that could cause complications at much higher levels.
 - We should emphasize, we're not physicians.
 You should check with your physician before you do anything.
 And probably ask your physician what he thinks
 and get a D test.
 Are there natural food sources I like to get this stuff
 from food?
 Can I eat a lot of broccoli or something?
 - No, that's just it, Leo.
 It is not in our food supply.
 It's interesting, the only way the Eskimos
 were able to keep their relatively high level
 of pigmentation is eating oily fish.
 They have a diet high in fish
 and it's the fish is the only source.
 A three and a half ounces of salmon
 has about, I think it's 380 IU of vitamin D.
 And again, there are studies that have been done
 that estimate we use about 4,000 IU a day.
 I've seen numbers like 3,800, 4,000, something like that.
 So again, you would need to be eating
 an awful lot of salmon, 10, what, 35 ounces of salmon a day,
 which you might get tired of after a few days.
 - And it might not be good for you for other reasons.
 - Exactly, so also it turns out that cod liver oil
 is really not the best source.
 It does give you vitamin D.
 It also contains the other fat soluble vitamin, vitamin A.
 And a lot of vitamin A can be a problem.
 And it also, vitamin A genetically looks very much
 like vitamin D and there have been reports that say
 that A can block the positive effects of vitamin D
 that is on other than on calcium metabolism
 where we know that it's effective.
 So getting A in the form of beta carotene
 is really what you want
 'cause your body is able to convert
 as much as it needs over to A.
 Anyway, you know, that's my readout on D.
 I think it's important.
 It's not a vitamin, I think it's had a bad rap
 by being misnamed a vitamin by early medical science
 that didn't know what it was,
 but just said, oh well, it's a nutritional thing
 because it's in cod liver oil.
 In fact, it's not anywhere else in our diet
 because we evolved in the sunlight, we need it.
 Otherwise, all kinds of things stop not working
 as well as they should.
 And there was in fact, it was funny.
 I was talking to some friends at Starbucks a week or two ago
 and one of the people said they just seen a news blurb
 saying that 70% of US children are vitamin D deficient.
 I mean, it is a problem, but the conundrum is
 because it is a powerful hormone,
 we can't put it in our food supply.
 We weren't meant to get it really in our food supply.
 There's barely enough now to prevent rickets
 and it's not even doing that anymore
 because people aren't, you know,
 they're staying away from dairy products
 more than they should, but if we put a lot more in,
 then there'd be the possibility
 that people could reach toxic levels of it.
 So, I mean, it needs to be done, you know,
 young people in the sun is probably what you wanna do,
 although there's a concern about skin cancer,
 which is to some degree warranted.
 So, I don't really see a way other than using supplements
 and doing it with care and wisely.
 I think it's important.
 - Steve Gibson, you know, this is a little bit
 of a departure for the show, but I think a fascinating topic
 and I could see why you were anxious to share it with us.
 Thank you.
 - Well, so I didn't give the webpage.
 I'm in the process, as I record this of,
 I have a lot of it, all the pages are assembled here at home.
 I haven't yet put them up on the site,
 but it'll just be grc.com/health.
 - All right.
 - And that will get anybody who wants to read this research.
 I've got, I've captured PDFs of all of this.
 They're all online.
 People can poke around, read this for themselves.
 And I hope maybe I've given,
 if nothing else, people something to think about.
 - Well, I'm gonna run out and get some vitamin D.
 I can tell you that right now.
 - That's it.
 You know, I think that was kind of a landmark.
 It sure surprised me.
 - I loved it.
 I remember you actually, you prompted me saying,
 well, Steve, what security problems are we gonna talk about
 this week?
 And I said, well, we're gonna do something a little different
 this week.
 - I'm glad you did.
 'Cause I've been taking vitamin D ever since
 and my health has been excellent.
 - And I was motivated by what I learned.
 It was that like, okay, this is, I mean,
 there's a bunch of other stuff that I do take
 that you and I have talked about off the record.
 I mean, so there's way more that I'm doing,
 but if I had to choose one single supplement
 that I would, if I could only take one thing,
 I think it would be vitamin D
 because of its powerful immune support.
 - We will be back next Tuesday, of course, January 7th
 with another edition of security now
 in which we will talk about security.
 We do it every Tuesday, right after Mac break weekly.
 That's 130 Pacific, 430 Eastern, 21, 30 UTC.
 I hope you'll watch the show.
 You can do it live, of course, as with all of our programming
 on twitch and x.com Facebook, LinkedIn, kick.
 And of course, if you're a club twit member,
 you get special behind the velvet rope access
 in our club twit discord.
 We chat in there as well.
 Of course, download it after the fact
 with dot TV slash SN or subscribing
 your favorite podcast player.
 Steve's website, grc.com has a special versions
 of a 16 kilobits, 64 kilobits.
 He also has got the show notes there.
 You could subscribe to the show notes there
 if you click the email link.
 And let's not forget, Steve's bread and butter is at grc.com.
 Spin right the world's best mass storage maintenance recovery
 and performance enhancing utility.
 And now is DNS benchmark pro
 for making sure you got the fastest internet
 you can get in your house.
 All of that version two just came out at grc.com.
 Steve, have a wonderful new year's.
 We'll see you in 20, 26.
 Can't wait.
 Bye.
 (upbeat music)
  Security now 
  Ooh, that face quantum fiber internet loves that face 
  That's Jermila 
  Hey, Jermila 
  She's thinking outside the box from inside the box 
  Quantum fiber wifi keeps her meeting game strong 
  From the back door to the front line 
  Rushing all of the video codes 
  Back to back to back video codes 
  Quantum fiber internet below in the taxis 
  Of all those people in all this boxes 
  We hate you 
 Switch today at quantumfiber.com.
 Additional pods may be needed to achieve wifi coverage
 in some locations, limited availability,
 service and select locations only.
