 (upbeat music)
 - This is security now, episode 15 for Thanksgiving Day,
 November 24th, 2005, part two of our continuing series
 on virtual private networks.
 (upbeat music)
 - Steve Gibson and a very good afternoon
 and a happy Thanksgiving to you.
 - Yeah, thank you.
 - We're actually doing this the day before Thanksgiving.
 Are you going to do Thanksgiving?
 Do you do Thanksgiving?
 - Oh yeah, I've got plans down here with some friends
 to hang out and relax a little bit.
 - My mom's in town, we're gonna have a big Thanksgiving
 and I'm supposed to be making stuffing right now.
 But no, I'm making a podcast.
 Security now is more important than stuffing.
 Last week, we talked about VPNs, virtual private networks.
 And we did the theory of VPNs.
 In fact, I had a number of emails saying,
 quick, get to the practice.
 What are you doing with them?
 So, shall we recap last week?
 - Yeah, I also want to mention a little bit
 on the continuing saga of Sony.
 The news is now the Attorney General of Texas
 has filed suit against Sony, the EFF,
 who were considering filing suit,
 that is the Electronic Frontier Foundation,
 have filed suit, and there are reportedly
 six class action suits, also now pending.
 - Wow, and what I thought very interesting,
 the Recording Industry Association of America said,
 no, no, that was, Corey Sherman,
 who's the CEO of the RIAA.
 - Yeah, defended this.
 - Yeah, defended it.
 He said, no, no, no, the only issue was,
 there was a security flaw,
 but they were just doing copy protection.
 No big deal.
 We plan to keep doing this, you know, wasn't perfect,
 but they, but he said, he said Sony did a good job
 of making up for it, of the recall,
 and he said they're doing the right thing,
 and you know, no problem, what's the problem here?
 - On Twitter on Sunday, I mischaracterized
 some email that I received from Amazon
 that I wanted to just fix,
 because I'd read a bunch of BBS postings
 and various blogs and things after receiving this email,
 and I made a comment that they were saying
 that Amazon sent me email saying that the CD was defective.
 - Yeah.
 - Actually, when I went back, I thought,
 oh, I really need to make this clear,
 that I got email from Amazon,
 because I purchased a CD specifically
 with the Sony DRM root kit stuff on it
 in order to experiment with it myself.
 They followed up, and I thought it was,
 I was very impressed, actually, that Amazon did this,
 and said, their email reads,
 "The Sony CDs listed above contain
 XCP digital rights management DRM software.
 Due to security concerns raised about the use of CDs
 containing the software on PCs,
 Sony has recalled these CDs and has asked Amazon.com
 to remove all unsold CDs with XCP software
 from our store.
 Since you purchased this CD from Amazon.com,
 you may return it to us for a full refund
 regardless of whether the CD is opened or unopened.
 Just visit, bah, bah, bah.
 Thanks for your understanding.
 We hope to see you again at Amazon.com.
 - That's actually a very good explanation, I think.
 - Yeah, it was very clear and very thorough.
 And anybody who isn't in the loop on this
 would have received email like this
 if they had purchased one of these CDs,
 and in that fashion, be brought up to speed,
 at least to some degree.
 It's like, oh, wow, now what do I do?
 - Yeah, I think that's fair to both sides
 in an accurate description of it.
 I hope other retailers maybe kind of take a page
 from Amazon's book because, of course,
 the recall is global.
 - Well, of course, Amazon has the advantage
 of being able to look at their database
 of everyone who purchased the CDs in question
 and send them retroactive email.
 If you buy something from good guys or best buy or fries
 or wherever, there's no way for other retailers,
 you know, physical retailers to get ahold of you.
 - So if you've got one, bring it back.
 And they're supposed to take it back.
 - The other thing I wanted to mention
 before we continue with VPNs is,
 I've gotten a lot of great feedback from people
 who are loving the little passwords page that I created.
 I've been so bogged down with VPN research
 for this podcast that I haven't been able to finish
 the page, although it's fully functional.
 I'm adding application notes to the bottom.
 So I just wanted to remind people about
 if you just put in grc.com/passwords,
 you get a page which generates really high security
 passwords for whatever purpose you have.
 - All right, and that's free and available
 for anybody who wants to use it.
 And it's that 63 or 64 character password
 that Steve recommends for people who are using WPA
 on a wireless network.
 - Right, well, and even for example, VPN shared keys.
 - Oh, you could use it for that, too, sure.
 - Or, yeah, I mean, just sort of--
 - Anything you need is 64.
 - Any purpose.
 - Or take what you need and leave the other one as well.
 - Well, yeah, in fact, the passwords are
 what's called maximum entropy passwords,
 meaning that at any point, the next character
 is equally probable to be anything within the alphabet,
 which means that shorter chunks of those passwords
 are just as good that is in terms of just as random
 as the whole thing.
 So if you've got something that only allows you,
 for example, I have a router that only accepts
 a 49 character pre-shared key for VPN setup.
 It's like, okay, you give it as much as it'll take.
 The number of people sent me notes with other password
 generators are lots of programs out there.
 In fact, OS X includes, in its key chain application,
 a random password generator.
 And I'm sure they implemented it well, although one,
 the problem is one doesn't know.
 And Steve's taking great care to make sure
 this is really random.
 - Well, it only displays itself over a secured connection,
 and the page is post-dated in 1999,
 so that no proxy will hold onto it,
 thinking that it might still be good
 and serve it to somebody else.
 So I did what's possible in terms of preventing anyone else
 from ever seeing the passwords that the page provides.
 - If you are creating a password in OS X,
 open the key chain access application,
 press the plus button, and you'll see next to the password,
 there's a little key, you can press that,
 and that gives you the password assistant.
 And Steve, you'll like this.
 They give you a variety of different choices.
 Memorable, letters and numbers, numbers only, random,
 and FIPS 181 compliant.
 I presume that that's some sort of high quality.
 - Standard. - Standard.
 And they have a little slider for length,
 and they even give you a little bar
 that shows you the quality.
 So I think that this is probably a pretty good one,
 although it only goes up to 31 letters,
 so you'd have to double it up if you wanted to use 64.
 - That's strange. - Do it twice.
 - Where they got 31 from, but that's the maximum number.
 So last week, Steve, we established
 that if you are, you know, for home use,
 you wanna turn on WPA encryption,
 and that's gonna give you a safe connection
 with your wireless network at home.
 And we also raised this specter, this problem,
 when you go out and you're using a hotel,
 or a hotspot that doesn't have any encryption,
 it is of necessity open, that everything you do
 is now suddenly back in the open and insecure.
 And we talked a little bit about VPNs
 as one way to secure this.
 Can we, let's just go back a little bit
 and explain the issue and why VPNs are helpful.
 - Great, first of all, I'll mention relative to WPA,
 there've been a lot of questions, great questions
 that people have sent, which we'll be addressing
 in next week's divisible by four security now,
 podcast number 16, which will be our Q&A episode.
 - Right, okay, so hold your questions until next week,
 actually send them, but we'll answer them next week.
 - Right, but now we're on the road,
 our WPA is not helping us at all, 'cause I'm using,
 I'm using the holiday in, and it's got an open access port,
 and now what do I do?
 - Exactly, so the idea is in a network
 where you have control, we've really covered clearly
 the issues of securing your own environment.
 The question now is, what happens when you're out on the road?
 You're in a hotel, we know from empirical evidence
 that about half of the hotels use a hub
 rather than a switch, because hubs are a lot cheaper
 and the hotel doesn't care, in order to network
 all of the rooms.
 A hub means that somebody in any room in the hotel
 running a packet sniffer is gonna see all the traffic
 from all the hotel guests using their broadband solution.
 So actually I misspoke, it's not just wireless,
 it's wired connections in the hotel too.
 - Yes, every connection.
 - And the problem of course is that typical email protocols
 are in the clear, not only for the login,
 but for the text of the email.
 So when you go to a hotel, and I mean at most people,
 what they're doing is they're checking their email,
 they're wanting to make sure that they're staying current
 with any email that they've had come in.
 It's over POP or IMAP, you know, port 110
 or they're sending out through SMTP on port 25.
 Anybody sniffing that, we'll see their username,
 their login, their password, and the contents of their mail.
 So, and of course the same is true
 if you're in an open Wi-Fi hotspot
 where you're taking advantage of somebody's kindness
 to use their open wireless.
 Again, as we know, that means there's no encryption.
 - And unless you think this is,
 oh, well, this is only a temporary thing.
 If once they get your email password and login,
 they can get it from now on until you change it.
 So, you know, you could go home
 and they're still reading your email
 until you change your password.
 - And I mean, some people might think,
 well, that's not a big deal, but I mean,
 you can be any cookies that are sent back and forth
 or allow someone, for example, to impersonate
 your automatic logon onto Amazon or eBay.
 - Oh, good point.
 - Which is cookie-based.
 - Right.
 - So, they don't even need your username and password
 because as we know, when you come back to Amazon
 or back to eBay or one of these sites
 that uses persistent cookies to identify you,
 they just say, hi there, Steve.
 You know, click here if you're not Steve.
 They do that by using a cookie
 which is in the clear, not over a secure connection.
 So, this allows somebody else to impersonate you.
 I guess my point is, this is really a serious security issue
 using non-encrypted communications in a public setting
 where there's one way or another
 for your traffic to be sniffed,
 either in a network with a hub or wireless
 which is inherently sniffing.
 - Okay, so we now see the problem
 and we all are exposed to this.
 I mean, I do this all the time.
 How do I secure my traffic?
 What are the options open to me?
 - Certainly, there are some protocols like,
 like we talked about HTTP as opposed to HTTPS.
 With HTTPS, the S stands for secure.
 That creates a, what's called an SSL tunnel.
 When you connect to the server,
 there's a secure negotiation which occurs
 and essentially any traffic that then travels
 over that connection is encrypted.
 It only carries the normal web traffic,
 but for example, it's the way e-commerce is able to accept
 your personal credentials, credit card numbers and so forth
 without that being a security risk.
 - Okay, so that's good.
 - Exactly, and for example, there are some email systems
 where you're able to use a similar
 an SSL connection for email.
 The problem is those are protocol specific.
 They're only for specific applications
 that you're running which are sort of preset
 to operate in a secure fashion.
 So in general, if we step back from those examples for a second,
 what they have in common is this establishment
 of a secure tunnel.
 We started talking about this last week.
 The idea being that a connection is established
 between two points.
 Then any traffic which you're sending back and forth
 is encrypted and then placed in a packet
 which is sent to the other end.
 It is expecting this, so it takes the wrapper off of that
 and then decrypts the traffic in order to get
 what it was that you originally sent.
 Essentially, it means that anybody sniffing your traffic
 and even someone who was able to intercept your traffic,
 the so-called man in the middle would be thwarted
 and would not be able to in any way gain access
 to the content of what you were sending.
 I mean, it's the perfect solution for this kind
 of mobile use of an otherwise insecure environment
 in a secure fashion.
 - I wish we could do it all the time.
 - Well, that's really the goal and over the next few weeks,
 we're gonna talk about strategies and approaches
 and I've sort of set myself a holy grail.
 I know where I wanna get but there's a lot of history here
 that I wanna talk about because there are sort of
 halfway measures and other solutions that are useful too.
 - All right, so I don't wanna get you out of order here.
 So, we wanna get that holy grail set up at some point.
 Can we talk about that down the road
 and talk instead now about the easy stuff?
 - I think we should.
 One of the, one of the--
 - Yeah, I wanna protect people now, you know.
 - Yes. - Yes.
 - Well, or in the meantime, at least make sure
 people understand what dangers they're facing
 if they're not protected. - Right.
 - One of the oldest approaches is something called SSH tunneling.
 SSH stands for secure shell.
 It comes from the Unix world
 as does so much of this technology.
 The idea being that when you are remotely administering
 a Unix machine, in the old days you would use Telnet,
 which is just a, basically it's sort of a terminal window
 where you're typing text into the window
 as you're typing at the text is sent to the computer
 and it's just like you are sitting in front of it
 at the console entering those characters
 and then the things it would display on the screen,
 instead it sends back to you
 and it's displayed on your remote screen.
 - Yeah, well, I have that capability on my Mac.
 I mean, that's something I could set up as SSH tunneling,
 although I've never really got it working exactly.
 - Well, actually that's Telnet that I was talking about.
 - Oh, Telnet, okay.
 Well, Telnet's the insecure SSH.
 - Exactly. - I see, okay.
 And it was the lack of security of Telnet.
 - I get it, oh, sorry, I didn't mean to interrupt you.
 - It's okay.
 It's the lack of security of Telnet,
 which induced people to say, okay, we've got a problem here.
 If I log on to my Unix machine remotely,
 my root username and password, for example,
 are going over the net in the clear.
 So anybody that was sniffing the traffic
 would be able to get my log on credentials
 as God of that remote machine.
 So they said, okay, we need to come up with a solution.
 What they came up with is actually
 an extremely robust solution called Secure Shell or SSH.
 The idea is it's very much like what we just discussed
 with SSL, the Secure Sockets Layer,
 which is used, for example, with e-commerce,
 or any time you're doing HTTPS over your browser,
 the Secure Shell SSH creates an endpoint to endpoint tunnel,
 and at that point, your log in,
 anything after that's connected, is completely encrypted.
 It is very, very securely encrypted.
 - Now I use that from now on.
 I've been using that for the last couple of years
 to get into my website, once I realized Telnet was insecure,
 and that works really well.
 And it's very much like Telnet.
 You get a terminal session and everything.
 - Well, in fact, it's identical.
 You would not know that you were running
 over secure connection in any way.
 Basically, it's transparent.
 And in fact, transparency is one of the keys
 of this whole notion of tunneling.
 The idea being that you could be in a Telnet,
 in an insecure Telnet session,
 you're typing and you're seeing what you type.
 The same thing happens with an SSH session,
 except that unbeknownst to you, visibly,
 everything that you type looks just like noise,
 completely, completely scrambled dust
 going through the internet to the far end.
 - So that's SSH login versus Telnet.
 Now, what is SSH tunneling?
 - Well, now that's an interesting sort of,
 I have to say Cluge, because that's really what it is.
 Now, say that somebody wanted a secure connection
 for traffic which would otherwise not be secure.
 For example, email.
 Normal pop account to port 110 is username and password
 and all the contents back and forth of your email
 is in the clear.
 Say that you were traveling around
 and you wanted some way to protect that,
 even though that protocol itself is not secure.
 What you can do is you use what's called an SSH tunnel
 and we're gonna be a little techy here.
 It's not something for the faint of heart,
 but it is a very well proven and effective approach.
 The idea is your SSH client running on your computer
 is able to support this, what's called, tunneling.
 You instruct it to listen for connections
 on an unused port of your own machine,
 like maybe port 1111, for example.
 I mean, I'm just making that up.
 It could be anything from one to six, five, five, three, five.
 Any one of the local ports.
 So you tell this sort of a little server
 running on your machine to listen for anything connecting
 on your own local port 1111,
 and when that occurs to accept the connection
 and send any traffic after encryption
 down that SSH connection to a receiving server
 at the other end, to an SSH server
 to which you've already connected.
 So essentially, you've got two connections.
 You've got the secure connection across the internet
 from your SSH client to a remote SSH server.
 And then you've got a second connection
 that is not secure, but it's just within your own computer.
 You tell your email system rather than connecting
 to a remote server on port 110,
 which is a normal pop port remotely.
 Instead, you tell it to connect to your own computer,
 often called the local host,
 and sometimes referred to with an IP address 127001,
 you tell it to connect to this local host port 1111.
 So when you check your email now,
 your email client connects to a port in your own machine,
 it has an insecure dialogue to that port,
 but everything that it sends into that port
 gets encrypted and sent across the internet,
 and everything returning encrypted gets decrypted and returned.
 So what this does is essentially,
 it creates a secure connection
 where there was no protocol security beforehand.
 - That's why it's called a tunnel.
 I mean, you're essentially establishing a new highway
 from your computer to another computer,
 and you just have, but the problem with this is
 you have to tell each client,
 okay, don't use 110 anymore, you gotta use 101,
 and then when your tunnel's not there,
 it's not 101's not gonna work,
 so you have to reconfigure it.
 - Yeah, I mean, it really is,
 it's something that people who are spitting the propellers
 on top of their heads are able to get to work,
 but exactly as you said,
 if you were doing this with a laptop,
 when you were traveling,
 you'd have to establish this SSH connection
 to an SSH server,
 the other thing is, you'd have to have an SSH server somewhere.
 Now, if someone were a Linux or a Unix guy,
 they could be running an SSH server at home
 and then create an opening through a router
 or their firewall to allow SSH traffic to come in.
 - The good news is, that's not so hard.
 On Mac, for instance, you can do it very easily
 with this system preferences,
 there's under the sharing preference pane,
 you just turn on the SSH server.
 The problem is you have to then open up a hole in your,
 you have to forward the port through your router
 for that to work.
 - Right, and we know that--
 - And incoming traffic's gonna be a problem,
 I don't know how you do incoming traffic at all.
 - Well, in fact, all the traffic coming from the outside
 would then be routed through that port.
 Now, that's normally port 22.
 One of the first things you would do for security
 is you would wanna move that to some other port number
 because SSH is often attacked because it's well-known port.
 - And while it is fairly secure,
 there have been holes in it in the past, so you can't--
 - Of course, and that's the problem that you run into
 when you're running any server on your own network.
 - Right, so just for Apple users, just so they know,
 in the sharing preference pane, you turn on remote login
 and that will turn on an SSH server for you,
 and then you'll have to port forward to make it work.
 But by default, it uses port 22,
 so I guess that may be not the best advice anyway.
 - So yes, you'd wanna tell the server to run on
 a different port if you were getting into this that way.
 But returning to the point that you made,
 when you're out roaming around and you've established
 this SSH tunnel, and you've got this SSH tunneling server
 on your roaming computer, exactly as you said,
 you'd have to configure your email client
 to use a different port that it normally would
 in order for this SSH server to intercept it.
 But not only port though, but also IP.
 You're telling it, don't go out to my normal pop server,
 which is located somewhere on my ISP.
 - Use local hosts. - Instead,
 yes, connect to my own machine, this own machine
 right here, which has a special SSH server,
 which is essentially redirecting that port traffic
 down the tunnel.
 Furthermore, it would only work, everything we just described
 solves the problem for one single protocol.
 That is, just getting your email from your ISP
 to your computer.
 If you wanted to send email, now you need to do the same thing
 for essentially for SMTP, run another tunnel on another port,
 tell your email client again to send mail
 to the local host address on this port,
 and that would need to get intercepted and rerouted similarly.
 - The way people usually do this is with a series of scripts.
 The SSH command line is long and abstruse.
 But once you've got it working, you just run the script
 and it turns them all on.
 - Well, it would create all of your local port services,
 but you'd still need to reconfigure all your clients.
 - Although I suppose if you just, you know,
 you always used it, it would be okay.
 - That's a good point.
 If you always ran in that mode,
 then you would just leave it that way all the time.
 I've been tempted to do this because I, in fact,
 do run SSH all the time, and I have SSH open
 so I can log into my computer as a terminal,
 and I've been tempted to create some tunnels
 just to see if this works.
 But so it's free, not easy, but it is free,
 and it does work, and it's secure, right?
 - Yes, it's extremely secure.
 SSH is able to operate with very strong certificates
 using public and private key cryptography.
 So I mean, it's as secure as anything can be.
 It's a well thought out solid protocol
 that will definitely allow you to move traffic
 between two endpoints that nobody can sniff
 and have access to.
 - So that's SSH tunneling.
 - That's SSH tunneling.
 Are there other ways we can do this?
 - Yes.
 - Okay, shall we talk about those,
 or do you want to save them for later?
 - Let's talk about SSL solutions.
 - That might be the easiest way to do this,
 and you're already doing SSL.
 - Well, yes, SSL is, now that's back to secure sockets,
 much as web browsers that are running over
 secure connection are tunneling their HTTP traffic
 through this secure tunnel.
 The real difference with SSL, I think,
 is that it's got such a strong browser orientation
 that many solutions are browser based,
 which hugely simplifies configuration problems.
 For example, does GoToMite PC run over an SSL connection?
 - It does, as does anonymizer.
 In fact, any solution that is trying to sell itself
 to consumers is likely to use SSL
 for the simple reason that that port 443 is almost always open.
 - Well, you don't have to have any router configuration.
 - Well, exactly, anybody who's gonna be using the web
 needs to be able to switch over to a secure web connection,
 and that'll be over port 443 and SSL.
 - So it's the same thing you're using
 when you go to your bank or your buy a book on Amazon,
 or any, that's the same SSL, it's secure, it's HTTPS.
 - Right, secure socket layer.
 - Okay.
 - Now, the thing that's interesting about this
 is that many of these solutions will download an application
 like a Java applet, which your local computer knows how to run,
 and essentially, they'll provide the client side for you automatically.
 - Now, that's interesting.
 Because you already have an SSL client, your browser.
 What you need is an SSL server on your home system.
 - Well, you need a, when you're using this,
 this, some sort of a remote system, for example,
 you go to a library, you log on to go to my PC.
 What go to my PC does is send you an applet
 which runs on that browser locally
 to be the client side of the solution.
 - Oh, that's, let me clarify then.
 I don't need a client to use SSL with my bank.
 That's built into the browser.
 - Well, actually, the browser is a simple text client.
 There's sort of a way to think of it.
 - So if I want more capabilities
 than I may need to download additional software
 on the client side.
 - Or the browser will automatically run Java.
 - Java will do it.
 - Exactly, so the idea would be that the service
 would provide you with an applet in Java
 which any browser knows how to run.
 - So I put this on my home PC.
 I log into it with my browser.
 I will have to open ports to do that, yes.
 - Actually, no, you're not putting anything
 on your home PC.
 - Oh, I'm not.
 - Your browser logs into the service
 and the browser downloads it just the same way
 like you download Flash or something.
 - I know what the confusion is.
 I'm still going for this holy grail
 of me running the server.
 You're saying I can't run the SSL server.
 I have to use a third party service to do this.
 - Well, it's a good thing you mentioned that
 because I found one.
 - Oh.
 - So normally I would go through somebody
 like publicvpn.com or boingo.
 There are a lot of places that do this
 that basically offer an SSL server that I can use.
 But we want to do this cheap or free.
 So we don't want to pay a monthly fee.
 This is that holy grail you're going for.
 We would like to do it.
 So we run it on our own home system
 and surf through our own home connection.
 - Correct.
 Now, certainly there are people for whom go to my PC
 or any--
 - Anonymizer.
 - Exactly.
 Anonymizer.
 Any of these publicvpn services would make sense
 because they don't even have to have a home.
 - Right.
 - I mean, they're using it wherever they are
 out roaming around.
 - In fact, that's better in some ways.
 You don't have to leave a home PC on.
 You don't have to make sure your connection's always blah-blah-blah.
 And you may have a slow connection at home.
 You may not want to use your home connection.
 - Correct.
 - Right.
 - For do-it-yourself people,
 there's something called SSL Explorer,
 which is a very interesting looking solution.
 It's hosted by SourceForge.
 If you just put SSL Explorer into Google,
 it'll take any of our listeners directly there.
 - I'll put that on the show notes too.
 It's a SourceForge project.
 So it's free and open source, okay.
 - What's interesting about it is that they,
 essentially they do what we've been talking about,
 except that instead of the server
 and being something that you have to subscribe to,
 and which inherently means you're paying,
 I don't know, $10, $15, $20 a month,
 whatever for the service,
 you run the server out of your home.
 So the idea is some machine,
 whether it's a Linux box or a spare Windows machine,
 or maybe your main Windows machine,
 it's sitting at home and is the server
 for you to access remotely.
 So when you're out and about,
 essentially you connect to your home's IP address,
 and of course there are now all the routers
 are supporting dynamic DNS,
 which essentially gives you a normal domain name,
 which will track any changes to your home router IP,
 so you don't have to worry about the IP changing
 and you being caught by surprise.
 - Oh, I didn't know that.
 I'd been still recommending dinedns.org
 and some of these other sites.
 So your new routers do this.
 - Yes.
 - Oh, I didn't know that.
 - Well, in fact, the way they do it is with Dine DNS,
 but they're Dine DNS clients.
 - They run the client on the router
 instead of on your system.
 - Exactly.
 - I see.
 - So the router has the responsibility for it,
 and when it notices that it's addresses change,
 it will contact Dine DNS and say,
 "Hey, here's a new IP address for this domain."
 - So what's wrong with this?
 This sounds like the Holy Grail right there.
 This sounds like the way to do it.
 - Well, it's close, I'm still not happy
 because there's another step that I wanna go to,
 but this is why, Steve, why aren't you happy?
 - Because it does mean that it's,
 again, it's a little more techy.
 You need to have a computer dedicated to this,
 or as you said, on and running all the time,
 on your home network.
 - Right.
 - You need to be able to run a client-side Java applet
 in a browser.
 It might be that a library has their browsers locked down,
 for example, so that you're not able to run
 applets of any kind on the browser.
 Although, again, if it was for your own use,
 for you to use in a laptop as you were traveling around,
 then you're gonna be in good shape.
 The key is that the connections to it are over SSL.
 It's extremely easy to configure.
 There's good documentation about this SSL Explorer,
 and for somebody who's interested in experimenting
 with this kind of solution,
 I think it's, I mean, I'd spent the afternoon reading the docs
 and taking a look at it.
 I'm very impressed with what you're able to do.
 You're able to access your files remotely.
 You're able to run your desktop using
 the standard remote desktop protocol,
 which is very efficient.
 So you're able to, like, essentially,
 operate your home computer as if you were there,
 very much like GoToMyPC does.
 - That's cool.
 So, run SSL Explorer.
 It's currently Windows and Linux-only.
 Mac version, as soon as the new Java is available for the Mac.
 And you can do, and you can surf the net.
 You could do everything you want.
 But you have to leave this machine on running this software.
 - Yes, and at the client end,
 it's completely browser agnostic.
 It just uses Java.
 So, for example, you could go to a library,
 you could use a hotel's internet service down off the lobby.
 You could use your own laptop and your own browser.
 Essentially, it allows you to access your home network
 in a completely secure fashion
 and do all kinds of things.
 Transfer files, map drives, access your regular desktop
 on the computer, and it's absolutely free.
 So that's really why I like it,
 as opposed to using some sort of a subscription service.
 - So there you have the easy, or not easy,
 but there are two ways to do it.
 Neither of them is the perfect way,
 but you could do it with SSH tunneling.
 That's really geeky and hard to set up.
 On the other hand, pretty transparent ones is working.
 SSL might be a better way to do it.
 And if you don't mind paying one of the SSL services
 like hotspotvpn.com or publicvpn.com,
 or go to my PC or anonymizer, it might be a good choice.
 And if you want to save money and do it yourself, SSL Explorer.
 But none answers Steve's holy grail.
 The holy grail of computing.
 And what is that?
 - Well, the holy grail,
 and this is where we're gonna spend some time
 in a couple of weeks,
 so we'll just leave this as a bit of a teaser.
 The holy grail is no software installed on the client machine
 for any version of Windows and Linux and probably Mac,
 although we'll need to see whether Mac supports
 one of the protocols required.
 The idea is you have nothing but a residential VPN router
 installed in your home.
 We've already talked about NAT routers
 and how great they are for security.
 There's an additional feature that is now offered
 by the same residential routers called VPN.
 That is a virtual private network endpoint.
 The idea being that Windows already has VPN technology
 Windows 2000 and XP has it
 and they have a free download for 98ME and NT4.
 So the idea would be you use the built-in software
 and Windows to connect to your VPN router,
 which means that that's then a secure connection
 and it's all protocols.
 It's actually, it'll run through POP and SMTP
 and web browsing, anything you do
 is running through this virtual private network tunnel
 to your router at home.
 Once there, you have access to your home network
 if you've left any machines on,
 but even if everything's turned off at home,
 except the router sitting there glowing
 in the corner by itself,
 then you're able to use that router
 to get out to the internet.
 - That's the holy grail.
 I agree with you.
 I like this.
 However, it's not that easy.
 - It's a configuration night.
 - And we're going to hold that discussion
 for another episode because that alone
 could take us half an hour.
 Next week, we'll answer your questions.
 If you have questions, go to grc.com/securitynow.html
 or suggestions.
 We'll just respond to our viewer mailbag next week, right?
 - Well, I have hundreds already.
 - I don't say anymore.
 - Oh, we've got plenty.
 But that's what we're going to do.
 Barring a major security issue in the news,
 that's what we're going to do every fourth episode.
 - Yep.
 - That's what's coming up next.
 And then in episode 16, and then in episode 17,
 we will, we hope, be able to explain
 how to set this holy grail up.
 This VPN router costs around 100 bucks,
 easy to set up, and you're good to go, you're golden.
 - Many people may already have them.
 If not, they could probably upgrade their routers
 firmware to get the additional functionality,
 or maybe sell their old one on eBay and buy a new shiny one.
 The beauty is you pay then nobody any money every month.
 - Right, it's yours, and you run it.
 And meanwhile, I'm going to try to get SSH tunneling up,
 (laughing)
 just to show it can be done.
 (laughing)
 - Cool.
 - Maybe I'll have something to rest.
 Then I've spent nothing to do that.
 We'll see if that works.
 Good luck.
 All right, Steve, if people want to know more,
 they should go to the website.
 You'll have full notes here at grc.com/securitynow.htm.
 That's also where you find the written transcripts
 and the 16 kilobit version of the show.
 The 64 kilobit full fidelity version is available
 via podcast, of course, and you can use
 your favorite podcast client to get security now.
 We're on all the different networks and channels
 and so forth, but we'll just go to this week
 in tech.com and you can find a direct link.
 That goes through AOL.
 We do thank the folks at AOL Radio
 who put us on their podcast channel
 and provide the bandwidth for security now at AOLmusic.com.
 Thank you guys.
 Before we go, Steve, I just want to mention one thing
 and I know anybody who listens to security now
 knows enough not to open email attachments.
 That's kind of the fundamental basics,
 but just because you will be the go-to person
 for your friends and family,
 there is a email scam going around,
 email purporting to be from the FBI or the CIA
 or the US Postal Service.
 I'll read you the FBI one.
 Dear sir, madam, we've logged your IP address
 on more than 30 illegal websites.
 Important, please answer our questions.
 This list of questions is attached, FBI.
 And the CIA one says we can help disinfect.
 So if you get an email from the FBI or the CIA
 with an attachment, don't be dumb enough to run it.
 Of course, it's a phony, both the CIA and the FBI
 announcements and their web pages saying we don't do that.
 We don't send out emails.
 Don't open attachments.
 You'll get the sober virus.
 It's gonna send itself out to other people
 and open your system to Trojan access,
 including probably spam servers.
 It'll zombie your computers.
 So you know better, gang, 'cause you listen to security now,
 but tell your friends and family if they get an email
 from the FBI or the CIA, just delete the email.
 - Yep. - Delete the email.
 - I did receive one of those by the way.
 - Did you? - Yeah.
 - We're all getting them.
 According to message labs, I think there were,
 that message labs has intercepted over two million of these.
 So what that tells me is that people are opening it.
 - Yep.
 - Which is kind of hard to believe in this day and age
 that somebody would actually buy that.
 But you know what's scary and you go, oh, the FBI, oh.
 - It's like the reason we still get spam is that it pays.
 - People buy things from spam ads.
 - You're right, if nobody ever bought anything.
 - All right. - All right, Steve.
 Thank you very much.
 Happy third Thanksgiving and have a good turkey day.
 We'll talk again next week.
 - Thank you very much. - All you're doing now.
 (upbeat music)
