 Hi, this is Leo LaPorte, and I'd like to introduce a brand new podcast to the Twit
 lineup.
 Security now with Steve Gibson, this is episode one for August 18, 2005.
 You all know Steve Gibson, he of course, appears on Twit regularly this weekend.
 We've known him for a long time, he's been a regular on the screensavers and call for
 help, and you know, he's well known to computer users everywhere for his products.
 He's very well known to consumers for Spinrite, which was the inspiration for Norton
 This Doctor and Still Runs Rings around it, is the ultimate hard drive diagnostic recovery
 and file saving tool, it's really a remarkable tool that everybody should have a copy of
 from grc.com, but he's also been a very active consumer advocate.
 He's been working really hard to help folks with their security.
 If you're scared of my attention with a click of death, which was the zip drive, Iomega
 hassle, and was it you that kind of talked Iomega into admitting that there was a problem?
 Actually, I think it was our show, it was the screensaver show that was on the screensavers.
 Yeah, because we had them on the phone and was David something, I can't remember his
 name now, who said there is a problem and there's a problem and it was great too, because we
 cornered him to saying that on the air, if anyone had this problem, Iomega would replace
 their drives, and I made a wave file of that and put it on my side, saying, "Hey, you heard
 from the guy, from Iomega themselves, they're going to replace your drive if you've got the
 click of death," and people were like, "Woo hoo!" and they were emailing this wave file
 to Iomega saying, "Hey, this is what you said, I want a new drive."
 It worked.
 It was great.
 It worked.
 You mentioned, of course, the fact that you were the first to discover spyware, coined
 the term spyware, wrote the very first adie spyware program.
 Yeah, I found some on my own machine and then, of course, Dale Haig was the guy who, who
 publicized it, who actually sort of over publicized it.
 He talked about the, the, the, the, um, the, uh, "Oriate" spyware, and he said it was
 doing all kinds of other things and that's what opt out.
 I wrote opt out, you know, in a place in order to remove that.
 The very first adie spyware tool.
 Yep.
 And shields up is up to now, what, 30 million, uh...
 30, 39.
 Almost 40 million systems tested.
 Yeah.
 I just used it last night.
 And then finally, of course, Steve's continually coming out and, and really been very, uh, good
 at analyzing security threats in, particularly in Windows and publicizing these threats, things
 like the problems with plug and play, and he wrote the great program Unplug and Pray.
 Unplug and play and, uh, de-comb bobulator to fix the de-com, uh, flaw.
 Uh, so he's been very good about, uh, calling Microsoft to task and in fact, uh, was probably
 the one sole voice in the wilderness against, against raw sockets.
 Boy, it wasn't.
 And, uh, it even took a lot of heat for that, uh, and Microsoft poo-pooted and others said,
 "Oh, Steve Gibson is, uh, you know, just being hysterical."
 And then, lo and behold, some years later, Microsoft, just a few months ago, secretly,
 without much fanfare, turned off raw sockets, and Windows finally admitting that there indeed
 is a huge problem with raw sockets.
 And, and, you know, the one other thing, too, is leak test.
 That is still the number one most downloaded freeware we have.
 What does leak test do?
 Yeah.
 Leak test was, it was the thing I did years ago because none of the personal firewalls
 were checking to see whether the program was actually the, the program you had permitted.
 You know, so, so you, you, you, you, you, it prevented programs masquerading as internet
 explorer.
 And that's still the number one download.
 Yeah.
 Interesting.
 Even though it's dumb.
 Inch.
 And ladies and gentlemen, despite all this, he still uses Windows.
 I don't know what's wrong with you, Steve.
 Everybody else does.
 That's where I, I'm in the middle of where the problem is.
 So Steve Gibson, uh, this is going to be fun.
 We'll do this every week and talk about what's going on in security and what you really have
 a knack for it and I've observed this now working with you for years is taking what is really
 obscure, difficult, understand security information, understanding it because you're, you know,
 you get it.
 You're brilliant.
 And then making accessible for us.
 And I hope that's what you'll do each week on this show.
 I look forward to it.
 Yeah.
 So let's talk a little bit about Zotob, this virus that has been sweeping the world, particularly
 media companies.
 Yeah, see, it's interesting that it hit them.
 Basically the problem is a one week ago on the night, I think it was, Microsoft did their
 standard second Tuesday of the month announcement of vulnerabilities.
 Here are the things that we now have patches for the thing that has really brought people
 up short is that within three days of announcing it, the hackers, the malicious hackers of
 the world had analyzed the patch, figured out what it was patching, although Microsoft
 really gave no information about that and had figured out based on what the patch was,
 this is the vulnerability that Microsoft was fixing and then engineered a worm, an internet
 worm to go after Windows 2000 machines based on this vulnerability that was never really
 disclosed, only the fix for it was disclosed.
 It's the fastest turnaround ever, yes?
 Yes.
 Normally it's been like a month and a half when like Sasser, the vulnerability from late
 April of 2004, that was a vulnerability called LSASS is a service running in Windows and
 then the Sasser worm was created from that, but it took about six weeks.
 Why is it that they're getting smarter or that this is just an easy one to exploit?
 How come so quick?
 Basically I think it's probably desperation.
 There hasn't been anything for about what, 14 months, 15 months and they were all still
 using this old LSASS vulnerability, so you know the idea is that all of the carrier technology,
 the bot technology, the worm technology, everything is like well developed now and poised to
 take advantage of anything that happens in Windows.
 So they've got everything ready to go, they just need a hole.
 Exactly.
 So as soon as they had some way to get control, a remote control of a Windows machine, they
 just stuck that little bit of code into their existing infrastructure and off they went.
 What are these guys doing?
 Are they trying to put mail servers on my system?
 What is their goal?
 Well they are, first of all, many of the news stories mischaracterize this as a virus because
 you know I guess it's easy for them to say virus because that's just what they think
 of.
 What is it?
 But in fact what we're seeing are worms and of course the difference between a worm and
 a virus is that a worm self propagates whereas a virus has traditionally been defined as
 the user has to do something to get themselves infected.
 Usually open an email attachment, so you don't have to open an attachment to get this one.
 No, if you've got the ideal situation would be a Windows 2000 machine and so we ought
 to mention that XP won't have this problem.
 Is that because of the patch?
 Actually XP has the vulnerability and the patch fixes this in XP.
 Even the most recently patched Windows XP service pack to machine with all the security
 stuff, however in XP and further in service pack one and even further in service pack
 two, other sort of related security enhancements, specifically anonymous logon and admin logon
 are required whereas on Windows 2000 an anonymous connection to a Windows 2000 machine can
 infect it.
 It's funny because I usually think of 2000 as being more secure than XP in this case
 not.
 Well, and of course that's certainly the case and also in service pack two you would finally
 have XP's firewall running by default and so that would block it.
 So if you had a firewall of any kind of router or a software firewall running, if you were
 running XP you would not be vulnerable so it's really only Windows 2000 machines that
 have not been patched that are not behind a firewall that are vulnerable.
 True.
 So as a consequence of that, most end users were not affected.
 The other protection that an end user might have, even if you had a Windows 2000 machine
 which of course most end users have by now, most end users went from the last edition
 of 98 and they jumped over 2000 and went to XP.
 It's mostly business that has 2000.
 Exactly.
 But even if you were an end user with 2000, no add-on firewall, no NAT router protecting
 you with like a raw broadband connection where you'd be like, "Okay, come get me."
 I mean, you know, it's like, you know, I mean, first of all, it'd be surprised if your machine
 was still on the net anyway because, you know, it would just be attacked so quickly.
 But it turns out the exploit port is Netbios, the good old, you know, it's what I created
 shields up to warn people about five years ago.
 File sharing.
 Exactly.
 Netbios, the next BIOS ports, 139 and 445.
 And for example, my cable modem provider Cox, they blocked those ports for me.
 So for example, if I were to, if I, and I have like a 98 machine on my cable modem and sometimes
 I'll bring my firewall down just to see what's going on.
 And if I scan it with my own shield up service, I see green spots, everything is, is, is
 protected.
 It's stealth.
 It's stealth.
 Like those ports, 135 through 139 and 445 and a couple other are being stealth by Cox.
 My cable modem provider.
 Interesting.
 So I could.
 In fact, more and more ISPs are doing that.
 They're providing, in effect, firewalls for their users.
 Well, exactly because they don't want their clients machines to get infected by these
 things because typically it turns these machines into zombies that then obey remote control
 instructions and for example, are sending spam out.
 So who got it?
 Well, that's what's really interesting is that CNN did a big, a big story on on this
 on Sunday night, ABC, the Financial Times and New York Times, General Electric, UPS and
 even Caterpillar, you know, major corporations got it.
 And the way they got it is they're not the typical end user.
 Most apparently about 50% of corporate desktops are still using Windows 2000 because it works.
 I mean, I'm using Windows 2000.
 I'm really not yet even an XP user because XP doesn't really have anything that I want
 or need.
 So about half of the corporate desktops are using Windows 2000.
 Now, of course, but they're still behind firewalls.
 Exactly.
 They're absolutely behind a corporate firewall, but they're not running individual machine
 firewalls.
 Oh, so a corporate firewall.
 Oh, OK.
 Well, I'm going to let you follow the, the, the train is thought here.
 Plus, and I might add they don't update these things as regularly as end users might.
 Exactly.
 So the, the, the patch was available from Microsoft the prior Tuesday before infection
 Tuesday, which was...
 Does Windows 2000 do automatic updates in the same way that Windows XP does?
 It can, although it doesn't force it on you in sort of in the same way.
 Most corporate computers probably don't have it turned on.
 They probably don't have exactly, they don't have automatic update turned on.
 And it might not be able to function through the corporate firewall anyway because I mean,
 certainly corporations are, have had problems like this in the past.
 I mean, they got zapped by Sasser and they got zapped by blaster.
 So, you know, the IT guys at corporate world, they're going to have a firewall super locked
 down.
 But what happened was some, some, some telecommutors got their laptops infected over the weekend
 when this thing began propagating at the end of last week.
 And then they brought the laptops into work, plugged them into the network and got infected
 from within.
 So the road warriors out for the weekend who didn't have protection brought it in, the,
 and then infected the network because there's no internal fire walling.
 It's, they're already, it's, they brought it into the safe space.
 Brought it inside.
 Exactly.
 So Windows 2000 machines didn't have local personal firewalls.
 They were all depending upon the corporate barricade on, you know, at, at, at the internet
 interface, but they got infected massively from, from within.
 Do you think there's a lesson learned here?
 There's a behavioral changes that need to be made?
 Well, I think so.
 I mean, it's certainly the case that if corporations wanted to stay with 2000 and they had firewalls
 per machine, then they wouldn't have got, I mean, you know, CNN and the New York Times
 were seriously hurt by this.
 You know, they got really, they got really zapped.
 So, so had those machines had local personal firewalls, this wouldn't have been a problem.
 There are companies who, for example, zone alarm has the technology and side gate has
 the technology.
 In fact, Symantec just yesterday announced they're buying, Symantec is buying side gate
 in order to acquire their corporate lockdown technology, whatever they call it, where, where
 they would run the, a side gate personal firewall soon to be renamed the, you know, the Norton
 Internet Security for Corporations 2006, or something, or something, who knows, and they'd
 be running that on every single one of these machines.
 And then the idea is that they would have central policy control over what the individual
 machine's firewalls would be able to do.
 Right.
 I mean, and then, you know, no one wants to do it because it just mucks up your computer,
 but it's, it's clearly necessary.
 Either that or ban laptops.
 Well, exactly.
 Now, for example, I have a friend who has a corporate laptop, he works for 3M.
 And the only way that laptop can get on the Internet is by using a VPN tunnel into 3M
 that then allows the 3M network to go out.
 So you're never on the net on your own connection.
 You're always on 3M's connection.
 And he hates it because, you know, it's a slower connection that if he just could get
 his own, he could get that laptop on the net, but 3M's IT guys have like, you know, screwed
 this thing down so tight that nothing is able to run at all.
 And now, you know, why they do that?
 And now it's real clear that that was a good policy on their side.
 Is this a herald of anything new or is this just business as usual, just yet another network
 worm and some people who had one little hole that they weren't keeping an eye on?
 I would say this was this was another network worm.
 It's probably significant that it was back on on Windows 2000 and not on XP because,
 you know, most of the world is moving to XP, Microsoft's security provisions in XP, even
 though they didn't deal with this vulnerability, it would have prevented a worm from being
 written to a to an to an XP machine, both because of internal policies and because Microsoft
 finally is running a firewall by default on on on service pack two of XP.
 So we talked about this the last time you were on call for help.
 Hackers are going to have because finally XP is getting so buttoned down hackers are
 going to start to have to look for new ways and new operating systems to attack.
 It's funny too, because I thought about that several times since you and I did that that
 call for help show there have been several announcements of vulnerabilities in third
 party software, backup software specifically where where exactly this is going on is is
 external remote.
 Take your computer over if you're using this backup software kind of stuff.
 So more and more do you think attacks will take those avenues?
 I think so because I think Microsoft I mean it's taken Microsoft God knows, you know,
 15 years to to to button this stuff up, but they're finally as a policy, they're showing
 some real improvement.
 Steve Gibson as usual, you did it again, always a pleasure Leo.
 That's it for this edition of security now with Steve Gibson.
 Security now with Steve Gibson can be heard every Thursday, starting at midnight.
 You can download it for Friday or you'll be getting you can listen on AOL radio and
 AOL music dot com or of course to our feed at feeds dot feed burner dot com slash security
 now.
 And we thank AOL radio for the bandwidth for this podcast.
 I'm Leo LaPorte.
 See you next time on security now with Steve Gibson.
