 (upbeat music)
 This is "Security Now" episode 16.
 Your questions, Steve's answers.
 (upbeat music)
 Steve Gibson is on the line by a Google talk from his,
 - Hey Leo.
 - His layer in Irvine, hi Steve.
 - My fortress of solitude.
 - Every, we decided every mod for podcasts,
 we're gonna start taking questions and responding to them.
 Is that the idea?
 - Yep, yep.
 - And this is mod four, episode 16.
 - Yep, so episode numbers that are evenly divisible by four
 will be Q and A and it's really nice
 because lots of people are posting questions
 to the forum at securitynow.hpm on my website at grc.com.
 I'm pretty much keeping up, I mean I am at the moment,
 up to date and I'll sort of see like a question
 that's asked many times in different ways
 and it's like okay, this is something
 that we need to deal with and also there are issues
 that come up that really aren't big enough
 to be a whole half hour security now episode
 but are like, it's a real good point
 and so it really helps me also.
 A lot of people are, they have different experiences.
 For example, we've talked about go to my PC.
 A huge number of people have said,
 "Hey, what about logmein.com?"
 - Right, right.
 - And so there's another system that is free
 for their minimum service that allows people
 to access their computers remotely.
 So it allows us to bring those things to light too,
 basically closing the loop of feedback with our listeners.
 - So let's close the loop
 and we start with our first question
 and this again, it's a composite of a number of questions
 along these lines.
 Referring way back to your passwords episode,
 which gosh, that was one of our very earliest episodes,
 wasn't it?
 - We did, I think the first couple episodes on passwords
 after the Zotob War, that was the very first one.
 - Yeah, and that was a great topic.
 The need for using strong passwords that can't be guessed
 makes sense but writing them down
 and keeping them in my wallet scares me.
 - What if my wallet fell into the wrong hands?
 What should I do?
 - Ah, and many people have mentioned that.
 It's like, hey, you know, they like the idea.
 I mean, they get it that using a password that's complex
 and it's like upper and lower case
 and just gobbly goop makes total sense to them.
 And then that means you have to write it down
 otherwise you're never gonna be able to remember it
 and get it right again.
 But what if someone discovered that?
 And my idea is that, okay,
 write down a variation of it.
 For example, maybe write it down
 with the first five letters from the end on the front.
 Let us make a simple change to it when it's written down
 that only you know.
 So you have a secret way of turning what you wrote down
 back into what your real password is.
 - So somebody finding the wallet's not gonna have anything?
 - Exactly, and even if they tried to use it,
 you know, it's not gonna work and they'll go,
 okay, well, I guess this isn't the right thing.
 - Or I do that, I just shift the capitalization
 in a certain way that is according to a rule
 and that would work.
 - That would be good as long as where you were logging in.
 - It was case sensitive, yeah.
 - Exactly, it was case sensitive.
 - Most most places are.
 - Or maybe just tack on your own secret five characters
 to the end of everything that's written down.
 Anyway, the point is, and people can figure out
 their own algorithm 'cause we don't wanna give it away
 because otherwise we've lowered the security,
 but do something to what you write down
 in a uniform way that, you know, only you know.
 And so you've still got an aspect of it that is secret.
 - And this isn't, by the way, as soon as we finish
 that podcast, I started changing all my passwords,
 using this password, portable password policy
 that you came up with.
 And I do it only on the low to medium security sites.
 I have to have a stronger password to my bank and so forth.
 But I'll tell you what, you know, it's not exactly this,
 but it's like this.
 I will take the name of the site.
 So if it's Google, without the dot com, just Google,
 and then I will interspersed the letters
 with the last four digits of my social security number.
 - Nice.
 - And that works.
 Now, as somebody pointed out in another email,
 it can, if you got a couple of webmasters got together
 and looked at my passwords,
 they'd be able to figure out how I was doing it.
 But first of all, that's unlikely.
 And that's why I only use it in lower security issues.
 - Yeah, and another point has been brought up,
 actually another question that I've had several times
 that this now occurs to me is many people wrote in saying,
 okay, but what about a situation where I have to,
 I am where there's a password policy that enforces me,
 that forces me to change the password every so often.
 That breaks the algorithm approach completely.
 The only thing I could suggest is maybe put a serial number
 on the end, you know, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 2.
 Again, it's technically you would know what the password
 was before if you knew what it was now,
 but it would allow you to quickly try a few things
 to get the one that's correct.
 And again, it's a way of mutating an existing password,
 making a slight change to it.
 Still, the bulk of it is completely random
 and high security.
 - Also, you created a password page at grc.com/passwords
 that generates truly random strings for wireless encryption.
 - Well, it's just great raw material.
 It's raw material for any time someone needs a password,
 you know, chunk.
 - So, people wrote and said, okay, fine,
 but how should we manage that password?
 You know, for instance, you have guests
 who are wanting to log on to your wireless network.
 Do you give them the guess, the password?
 How do you do it?
 It's so long and difficult to handle.
 - That's a very good point.
 I sort of glibly said in a podcast,
 oh, just cut and paste without thinking it through
 because, you know, somebody who comes to your home
 isn't yet on your network, so cut and paste what?
 - Right.
 - Of the, I have a couple of thoughts.
 One would be if you have a floppy drive, of course,
 if people still have diskette drives,
 you could just use that to move the password
 over to their machine.
 Failing that, USB drives are more and more universally
 available now, that would allow you to get it
 to their machine, or if they could get on the net anyway,
 and then, for example, you email it to them,
 or like, leave it on Google Mail, for example,
 and then you briefly log on down--
 - On their machine, yeah.
 - On their machine, you know, just in order to get it over--
 - I like the USB key, I think that's a great idea.
 People more and more using USB keys
 to store stuff like that, and that's a very good use for it,
 I think.
 - Now, and, you know, frankly, there's been a lot of issue
 about, in fact, as we see, as we look at these questions,
 this problem of merging security and lack of security
 continues to create problems.
 So, another possibility is, if this person doesn't need
 security while they're at your house,
 just shut down your encryption, just, you know,
 with a YouTube button on your browser,
 turn off your encryption while they're visiting.
 Don't you do anything, don't do any online banking
 with all your neighbors, but, you know,
 like while they're there, you accommodate them,
 and then, when they leave, you switch back up
 to a strong encryption.
 - Here's a question that addresses something
 that we're in the middle of right now.
 Is it possible to use a public computer in a hotel,
 a library, an airport with total safety?
 What are the security and privacy concerns?
 - Well, that's a really good question,
 'cause that's a little different than, sort of,
 the VPN topic that we're gonna continue talking about
 for the next couple episodes.
 This is like you go to a library and wanna do something.
 The problem is, even if you logged into Google Mail,
 and, for example, you could use a secure connection
 to Google Mail to prevent your dialogue
 from being listened to.
 But you're using somebody else's hardware,
 and, you know, essentially booted
 with somebody else's software.
 So you don't know if there's not a keystroke logger
 monitoring everything you type at the keyboard prior.
 - So even if you had a VPN, they could keep track of that.
 - Exactly, if you use GoToMyPC, if you do log me in
 or, like, that SSL Explorer that we talked about,
 - Doesn't it matter?
 - Does it matter?
 Are you still getting your keystrokes logged?
 - So it is a, and in fact, anecdotally, we hear
 that those computers in public locations can, you know,
 like ScriptKey, guys, like to install,
 even like a hardware keystroke logger,
 just in-line in the keyboard.
 - You cannot detect that.
 - And so they, you know, some kid sticks it in the keyboard,
 sits back and pretends to be reading a magazine,
 while other people come up and use the computer,
 then they unplug it, take it home,
 and dump out everything that was typed.
 - So what can you do about that?
 - Don't use public machines.
 (laughing)
 - Oh, I'm not kidding.
 There is no, again, there's still--
 - Can't be secured.
 - There's no safe way.
 Even if it's not a hardware keystroke logger,
 it could be something in software
 that somebody else has deliberately installed
 to hack the machine.
 So, and it's an important lesson, I think,
 overall, in terms of a security policy,
 is having known control of the platform that you're using.
 - Hardware control, yeah.
 - Yeah, it's your laptop, you're carrying it around,
 you don't loan it to somebody who you don't trust,
 because, you know, in general, you attend not to,
 because presumably you've got other stuff
 on the laptop that is yours.
 So, maintaining physical control of the computer
 is definitely part and parcel
 of being able to be secure using that machine.
 So, you really need to remember
 that you can't use somebody else's computer
 that you have no security oversight on in a secure fashion.
 Sure, it's safe to go Google and browse around
 and not do anything important,
 but be very careful, not even logging into Google Mail
 on a public hotspot machine,
 because anything could be happening there.
 - Wow, that's a good warning.
 Several times, another questioner asks,
 you've mentioned that hubs are less secure than switches.
 What's the difference between a switch and a hub?
 And why do hubs allow you to see the entire network?
 Are there, are switches one way devices like NAT routers?
 - Okay, that's, again, a question
 that's come up a number of times.
 The idea between a switch and a hub is that,
 first of all, only with current 10 base T technology,
 you remember that there was,
 I've lost my vocabulary, was it two base T?
 - Oh, the old coax, you mean?
 - Yeah, with coax, you actually had
 an electrically shared connection.
 - Okay, I remember that,
 'cause if you unplug your computer from the network,
 the whole network would die, 'cause it was serial.
 - It was a nightmare.
 - It was terrible.
 But you were actually--
 - And these T connections everywhere.
 - You actually had multiple computers
 on the same physical wire.
 Well, the way 10 base T works is different.
 You have a single computer connected to a hub or a router,
 so that each computer is electrically
 on its own set of wires, which is really important.
 Inside the hub, now, inside a hub or a switch
 is essentially a little mini NIC,
 a little network interface,
 just like you have on your computer
 for every one of its connections.
 With a hub, anything that any one of those wires receives
 is sort of mindlessly sent back out
 of every other one of the connection.
 - That's what it means not to have any routing.
 It's not routed.
 It's everybody gets a look at every packet
 and then the one that is for you, you do take.
 - Well, routing, we have to be careful of words,
 'cause routing is something else.
 The right term would be switching,
 where the idea would be there's no switching,
 so that what one port receives all other ports here.
 And so that's a hub where you actually,
 everybody's sort of on,
 they're not quite on the same wire electrically,
 but they're all seeing any information that anyone sends.
 So the reason this is a problem in a hotel
 is that you could have a huge hub or a set of hubs
 where something that one computer on the 12th floor
 sends to the internet,
 literally every other machine in the physical hotel
 is able to sniff that and essentially receives that traffic.
 - You know me in physical analogies, I've got one for you.
 - Oh good.
 - That will explain this.
 So it's as if you're in an office, a crowded office,
 and somebody wants to pass a phone message to you.
 They can come in the door and shout the message.
 You'll get the message,
 but so will everybody else in the office.
 That's a hub.
 If you had a switch, you would be divided up
 into different rooms in the same office.
 There'll be other people in your room,
 but the person who comes in and shouts the message
 is only heard by those people in your room.
 That is that segment on the switch.
 - Well, actually a switch is even better than that.
 It is exactly like someone coming in
 and whispering justice.
 - Oh really?
 Oh, I thought a switch divided the network into segments
 that were still public.
 Oh, okay.
 So my analogy doesn't work then.
 All right.
 - Yeah, it's sort of tricky because what happens?
 - 'Cause I was gonna say a router
 is like somebody calling you on the phone
 and saying that message directly to you.
 - A switch does that too.
 - A switch does that too.
 Okay.
 - What happens is a switch learns which MAC address,
 which physical NIC is on each of its segments.
 Now, if you had a master switch
 and then it was connected to other switches
 and then they were connected to NIC.
 So you sort of have a hierarchy.
 In that case, the switch at the top
 of the tree would learn like maybe that there were 10 NICs
 that were connected to its first port
 because that then connects to another switch
 that learns which NIC is on each one of its ports.
 So it is possible for a switch
 to send multiple traffic down one of its connections
 that's then further subdivided by another switch
 or a hub out further away from it.
 But essentially, what the bottom line is,
 no one listening to traffic on a switch
 is able to ever hear anything other than what's bound for it.
 - It's the guys coming up and whispering in your ear.
 - Exactly, just like it's whispering in your ear.
 In fact, it's funny that hubs are becoming endangered.
 Now, it's a hard to find hubs
 'cause switch technology is coming down in price
 and it's just better.
 So I literally, because I'm in, you know,
 sort of in the network end of the world,
 I've purchased a bunch of hubs just sitting in boxes
 before they disappear completely.
 - I have something I can give you, Steve,
 if you really want something.
 - Well, because they're so useful for me,
 I want to be able to sniff the traffic on my own network
 and watch other computers talking to each other.
 You cannot do that if you use a switch
 to connect all your computers together.
 - To understand this really requires
 an understanding how ethernet,
 which is the networking protocol that's being used,
 works, it's a broadcast protocol.
 Without any special switching,
 it will just send everything to everybody.
 - Yeah, in fact, that's inefficient.
 - But, well, it's actually got some efficiencies
 and some inefficiencies.
 - Well, it's inefficient because you start
 having packet collisions.
 The way ethernet works is that if,
 essentially, anyone can talk on the wire
 at any time they want,
 if two people talk at the same time,
 they will collide.
 Their packets literally collide
 and scramble each other's bits on the wire.
 But each of them is listening to the wire as they're talking.
 So in the old days, when you literally were all
 on the same wire, or even today,
 if you're on a hub instead of a switch,
 if two computers on a hub send at the same,
 at exactly the same time, their packets will collide,
 but because they're all hearing what everybody else says,
 they hear their own collision
 and they realize, oops, somebody was talking,
 started transmitting at exactly the same time I did.
 So what they do is they back off,
 they wait a random amount of time and retransmit.
 Well, the chances of a second collision are low,
 but if it happened, then they would, again,
 they'd wait a random amount of time and try again.
 The point is, this technology is,
 it's called CSMA, Collision Sense Multiple Access.
 That's the original brilliant ethernet technology
 that Bob Metcalf invented back in the old days.
 And that's why people came up with switches
 because on very large networks,
 you're getting so many collisions
 that you wanted to kind of segment your network
 to make it more efficient, reduce collisions.
 But that's exactly right, if your network gets huge
 and you've got a certain number of computers,
 what's happened is the ethernet starts to fail
 because you end up with a much, the rate of collisions
 starts going up so high that no one is able
 to get their message through
 without somebody else stomping on it.
 And a switch is a store and forward technology.
 It receives the packet, it looks at the MAC address
 to see where it's bound for.
 It looks up in a table that tells it where the,
 which ports the MAC addresses are connected to
 and it resends that packet only out on that one port.
 That's that switching behavior
 and that prevents your network from collapsing
 as it gets really big.
 - All right, let's move on 'cause we have a lot of questions.
 I wanna get to as many as we can.
 This is a very interesting one from a good Samaritan.
 He says there are a number of unsecured wifi access points
 in my neighborhood.
 Is there any way I can contact them aside from knocking
 on doors and warning them about the security issues
 that they're facing?
 - That's an interesting question.
 I thought about it when it was asked when I received it
 from the webpage.
 Certainly anything he would do over wifi would be illegal.
 I mean, in the early days of file sharing,
 there were, remember where we had open file sharing ports?
 There were people who would put text files
 on other people's desktops, telling them that they're,
 I never did this, but telling them that's not a good idea.
 I mean, it's illegal for someone to alter
 anyone else's computer even if you have the best of intentions.
 - You mean like Sony?
 - Yeah, like exactly.
 - Okay, let's knock it.
 We'll get into that later.
 - So, unfortunately, the only thing I could suggest
 is what this guy suggested.
 Maybe like printing up Xeroxing some leaflets,
 some little information pamphlets and say,
 hey, I don't know who you are,
 but my computer can see your network and it's not secured,
 it's wide open, I'm not touching your network
 and I never have, but you oughta go start listening
 to episode one of security now with Gibson and LePort.
 - We wouldn't mind that.
 - Exactly.
 - Doing a bad for us.
 - Again, there's no way it is not illegal, and believe me,
 I mean, you could piss off some knee jerk neighbor
 who could have the cops out and it would be problem.
 - You don't want to do that, yeah.
 - Nope.
 - Here's a fella who's been listening well, I think.
 He's using WPA, which is the encryption
 that you recommend for wireless networking.
 He's using the pre-shared key, the PSK version.
 - Right.
 - NTKIP, he says he's using a killer key
 from your passwords page, but since AES encryption
 is better than TKIP, which you said still uses
 the RC4 encryption from web,
 I'd rather use AES.
 My vendor doesn't offer it.
 What is a boy to do?
 - I'm a little unsure.
 - This again is sort of a composite question
 that many people have asked.
 They recognize that, okay, they're happy,
 they're no longer using web, but they know
 there's something more.
 They're like using WPA, or I'm sorry, WPA,
 instead of WPA2, they know that there's something more,
 or there's like-
 - That's good enough, isn't it?
 - Yes, and that's my point, is there's nothing wrong
 with RC4, this AES-
 - It's how it was implemented that was bad.
 - Yes, RC4 is a fantastic cipher, extremely random.
 You mix that with your clear text.
 You get undecipherable crypt text.
 There's just no way that anyone is gonna be able to crack it.
 So I really think that any concern
 about going beyond basic WPA with a pre-shared key,
 and especially if you're using
 one of those gobbledygook 63-character passwords
 from my passwords page, you are just nailed down.
 You are super secure, and there's another reason
 not to go further.
 You might be able to get like one computer
 and your access point to hook up.
 But the further you push the encryption,
 the more problems you're gonna have with other devices.
 Somebody comes over who doesn't support,
 they may support WPA with a pre-shared key,
 but not the higher level that you're using.
 So WPA with a pre-shared key is so strong,
 you just really, you can stop there with confidence.
 - If you don't want to bother with proxies,
 or VPNs at a public hotspot,
 because you're just doing email,
 how secure are the secure features of webmail systems?
 He asks about, or this person asks about Google mail,
 but I'm actually curious, I use Fastmail,
 which is an IMAP service, but it does SSL.
 Am I secure?
 Is he secure? - Yes.
 Yes, now, we gotta be careful when we say public hotspot.
 As long as we mean, you use your computer
 that you have controlled and public connectivity.
 - A public terminal is another problem.
 - A public-- - As we talked about earlier.
 - As we discussed before, that's just a big no-no.
 There's just no safe way to do that.
 Okay, but your password is sent encrypted,
 your entire transaction is encrypted,
 and most of these services, I know Google and Fastmail do this,
 you can click a box and say, yeah, I'm on a public network,
 don't make sure that nothing gets saved and all that stuff.
 - Yes, I would say that it is completely safe.
 SSL will protect everything you do once it's connected.
 So, for example, if you use HTTPS colon slash gmail.com
 to get on to Google Mail and make sure
 that it keeps you on a secure connection
 as you move around the website, I believe it does,
 then you're safe, as long as using,
 as long as all you do is email that is over
 that SSL connection from a public hotspot,
 you have nothing to worry about.
 - And listen next week 'cause we are going more into detail
 on how to create a VPN that you can use
 to be secure all the time. - Extrutiated detail.
 - Oh man, you know, let's not get started
 'cause I've been playing with some of the things
 you're gonna suggest and excruciating might be the right word.
 - Yeah.
 - Is it possible, one listener asks,
 to compromise a NAT router or a NAT router modem?
 He says, here's what happened.
 Normally, zone alarm is silent on his PC.
 A few weeks after resetting the NAT router,
 he began to get a couple of zone alarm alerts
 from real IP addresses.
 He reset the NAT router again, that made it go away
 for a few weeks, but it comes back.
 Is he being corrupted, is he being compromised?
 - I would bet money, how we've talked about the moment
 you put a NAT router in, your personal firewall goes silent
 'cause there's no way unsolicited traffic
 is able to enter through the NAT router any longer.
 - Any alerts you get will be from outgoing,
 outbound traffic, not incoming traffic.
 - It'll be your own applications asking for permission
 to use the internet. - Right.
 - Exactly.
 I would bet anything, this guy's got universal plug and play
 enabled on his router.
 And that is a big no-no.
 Universal plug and play is an insecure technology
 that Microsoft created which allow,
 basically it's sort of their zero administration effort.
 The idea is they want their MSN instant messaging
 and things just to work.
 They don't want to ask users to open ports
 through their router, to have to do
 like static open ports.
 Basically universal plug and play allows the computer
 to tell the router to open ports.
 And what's worse, it doesn't show in the user interface.
 You can't go to your router and see what ports
 have been administratively opened behind your back.
 It's really bad.
 And so this sounds like exactly what's happening here
 is that something in the user's computer,
 and that's the other problem, it could be malicious.
 It could be a Trojan that doesn't want to get cut off
 from the outside world.
 It installs itself, it uses universal plug and play
 to bring his router defenses down deliberately
 so that unsolicited junk is now able to enter
 through his router.
 You absolutely have to disable universal plug and play
 and then reboot your router.
 - And that will be somewhere in the router settings
 if you log in the router.
 - It'll always be in the user interface.
 And the good news is most of the routers I've seen
 seem to have it disabled by default.
 Because they're recognizing it's a problem.
 - Oh, that's interesting.
 That's something new, maybe because of you.
 I don't know.
 - Well, I've been pounding on people about it.
 - Good.
 What are your feelings, another writer asks,
 on file and print sharing on a home network
 if you have a net firewall, you know, you're behind a router.
 I know that XP has a fit about the security issues
 when you set sharing up, and it really does,
 it warns you several times.
 But it is a prime reason I have a home network.
 I want to be able to use one printer on the network,
 all my machines, I want to be able to share files.
 He's not alone, everybody, I think wants to do that.
 In addition to being behind the router, the net firewall,
 I've also installed NetBui on all my PCs, XP, Pro, and Home,
 plus 2003 server.
 And that's because file sharing's a little easier
 over NetBui, I'm sure.
 And I've unbound file and print sharing from TCP/IP.
 So it is only accessible via NetBui.
 Was that a good idea?
 - This guy, he's clever, isn't it?
 - Well, he's read my shields up pages.
 - That was what I discovered years ago,
 was that you did not need TCP to do file sharing.
 NetBui was Microsoft's original protocol.
 - You used to be called NetBios.
 - Well, actually-- - Pretty much the same, isn't it?
 - Yeah, they're certainly related,
 although they are different technologies.
 NetBui is an actual transport protocol.
 What's cool about NetBui is it is a non-routable protocol.
 It is unable to get away from your local network.
 There's no IP address in NetBui.
 It's all only for a LAN, not for a WAM.
 Now, if listeners don't know what we're talking about,
 this is all about what shields up.
 The original security stuff on my website is about.
 And it shows you how to do this thing called
 unbinding TCP/IP from file and printer sharing
 and using NetBui instead.
 - Well, I mean, isn't he protected this anyway?
 Because he's got the router protecting.
 - I was just gonna say,
 he's a real suspenders and belt guy
 who's got super level of protection.
 So, he would be safe using NetBui even without a router.
 - Because port 139 is blocked by the router.
 - Yes.
 - And nobody's gonna be able to make any NetBios calls.
 - Well, and NetBui doesn't have ports.
 I mean, it's-- - Oh, it doesn't.
 Oh, I get it, all right, okay.
 - I mean, it's completely,
 it's like a non-internet protocol.
 - So what is port 139?
 That's a NetBios file sharing port, isn't it?
 - Yeah, it's NetBios over TCP.
 - So that's what we're disabling.
 - Exactly.
 And so, by unbinding file and printer sharing
 from the use of TCP,
 you're like in a whole different networking realm
 that can't go anywhere.
 I mean, he is super safe.
 - Good job, in other words.
 But not necessary as long as you've blocked those ports.
 If you get a green light from shields up,
 you're stealthed on port 139 on the other net
 of the file sharing port.
 So you don't, that's enough.
 - And if you're behind the NetRouter, you're safe anyway.
 - Anyway, okay.
 - Because Net protects you.
 - Right.
 - You've said that SSL connections
 are not susceptible to man in the middle attacks,
 but I've read that they are.
 I wanna believe you,
 but why do others think that SSL is susceptible
 to M, I, T, M, tax attacks?
 And when an SSL or VPN authorizes,
 what stops someone listening to the packages each way
 to figure out the keys?
 So first let's start with what is a man in the middle attack?
 - Okay, in fact--
 - I have no analogy for this one.
 You're on your own.
 I mean, I could do it, but I'm gonna let you do it.
 - We're gonna start the beginning of the new year
 talking about the way the internet works.
 What's ports, what's IP addresses,
 what are packets and all that?
 Then we're gonna talk about crypto
 because we really need a foundation
 to understand some of this more advanced stuff.
 So it's probably the wrong time for me to answer this
 'cause we don't have enough foundation for me
 to talk about how SSL security works
 and how man in the middle attacks can be avoided.
 I wanted to bring up the question
 because so many people are asking it.
 - A man in the middle attack is when somebody kind of poses
 as the receiving or the sending site.
 - Yes, the idea is that it's one thing to passively listen
 to packets going in both directions.
 And that was the second part of this question was
 if someone listened to this session,
 this SSL or the VPN connection being established,
 why doesn't that give them all the information they need
 to decrypt the whole conversation?
 Because after all, they've heard everything
 that both sides have sent back and forth to each other.
 - But that's public key cryptography,
 that's the whole point of public key, your time ring.
 - In the old days, if you had a decoder ring
 or you had to send the guy to the coder ring, right?
 And if anybody intercepted the decoder ring,
 he'd now know that he could copy down the algorithm
 and then send the decoder ring on
 and you're cracked.
 But because of public key cryptography,
 I can send you the public key and it's still useless.
 Is that basically it?
 - That's it and that's probably all we should say for now.
 - It just means it's possible to exchange a key
 without compromising security.
 You still need the private key to decrypt.
 - It's sort of like, okay, I could explain this now.
 - Let's save it.
 - People would get more confused.
 - Everyone's eyes would cross.
 - That happens anyway.
 Let's not.
 - So I want to explain this.
 It's so cool how this works.
 And I think people are gonna get a big kick out of it.
 But if we do a part way job,
 people will just end up being more confused.
 - So just to answer his question,
 so man in the middle is not possible
 with a properly implemented SSL.
 - Boy, we're gonna get in the portfolio.
 - You could fudge it, you could say in some cases.
 - If, no, there's just no simple way to answer the question.
 SSL is susceptible to man in the middle attacks
 if authentication is not involved.
 A man in the middle, there's no way for a man in the middle
 who's somebody who's not just passively listening
 but is actually able to impersonate
 the people at either end.
 - That's why these certificates are so important.
 Certificates are the authentication you're talking about.
 Certificates are an aspect of authentication.
 But again, here's where we really need to get careful
 with our definitions.
 So there's just, we gotta have to wait.
 People are gonna love this when we explain it, yes.
 - By the time you've listened to episode 99 of security now,
 you will be the next Bruce Schneider.
 Nintendo just launched its Wi-Fi service for the Nintendo DS.
 You can now go to McDonald's and get play games
 against other DS people.
 The problem is the device doesn't support WPA encryption.
 It just, the DS only has web.
 Many small portable devices are like this.
 Any suggestions for a home network
 where we might wanna use these devices
 and still be secure.
 In other words, if I've got a DS
 and I've got a WPA encrypted network,
 I can't use the Wi-Fi.
 - Yeah, and this sort of question has come up
 in many different flavors.
 For example, there's some people that have their Tivos
 on a wireless connection,
 but Tivo only supports WIP.
 It doesn't support WPA.
 They wanna run their whole network on WPA,
 but now the Tivos are stranded.
 - Now, Palm did the right thing.
 They support WPA.
 - Oh, in fact, Leo, I took one of my hairy,
 I was gonna say hairy ass passwords
 from my own password page.
 I mean, this thing just makes your eyes cross.
 63 characters, it looks like, you know,
 the computer's badly broken.
 I did, I copy and pasted it using a little SD card
 into my Wi-Fi, my new TX, dropped it in
 and it connected right up to my network.
 - Isn't that great?
 - Using real strong WPA encryption.
 - But so there's, if you have a DS,
 you just, either you don't use it on the network
 or you set the network for web during that time
 or turn, or actually, as you mentioned earlier,
 you could just turn off security
 during the time you wanna use it.
 - The thing that I've suggested to people
 whose email addresses I had was,
 and actually, they wrote back and loved the idea.
 So, I guess maybe it's feasible,
 it's possible to run two networks.
 There's nothing to prevent you from having your,
 and this actually solves the problem
 of people coming over to your house, also.
 - So you have an insecure network and a secure network.
 - Exactly.
 You might wanna run MAC address filtering
 and hide your SSID so that your neighbors are not using,
 I mean, I would suggest having one that is WPA
 running at full security
 and probably just leave the other one wide open.
 Don't even bother with web security on the other one
 if you really don't care.
 But do use MAC address filtering to keep your neighbors
 from using it by mistake.
 Then your T-vos can connect, your Nintendo DS can connect,
 your neighbors who bring their laptops over to--
 - Real quickly, what would the topology be?
 You would have, okay, I have my cable modem or DSL modem.
 It's connected first to the insecure
 access point and that's bridging to the secure access point.
 - There are levels of security that you could go through,
 but as long as you've gotta switch on your router,
 which is isolating the traffic from each other,
 you're gonna be very secure.
 - So you have a router connected to the cable modem
 and a Wi-Fi access point coming off that router that is open.
 - And it's not gonna see any of your,
 and none of your encrypted traffic
 would ever be decryptable anyway,
 'cause you're on WPA.
 - So a modern router is gonna have a switch
 and that'll be sufficient.
 An older router might not, but.
 - Yep.
 - Okay, let's see, we only have a few more minutes,
 let's get a few more in here.
 What's the security of the Windows Remote Desktop?
 Is it safe, is it secure?
 Do you recommend using it at a hotspot as a VPN?
 - That's a great question.
 And we're gonna do one whole episode
 on Remote Desktop security and securing Remote Desktop
 because it's a really nice way for people
 who are interested in not using a third party service,
 like go to myPC or logmein.com,
 for them to access their machines.
 Microsoft has tried for years to make this secure,
 and they still haven't got it right.
 It is deeply encrypted, with XP,
 you're using 128 bit RC4 encryption cipher,
 so it is extremely encrypted.
 It is however susceptible to a man in the middle attack,
 like we were saying before.
 There are even freely available tools,
 this cane and able tool,
 has a Remote Desktop protocol,
 man in the middle logging and interception capability,
 but basically someone can sniff that traffic,
 well actually I can't sniff it,
 I need to be careful here myself.
 They have to actively modify the initial login dialogue
 to insert themselves in the middle,
 but these tools are available and are known.
 Then they are able to record everything you do
 with your Remote Desktop.
 Now, this is one of those deals where someone says,
 okay, come on, Gibson, you know, it's encrypted,
 it's secure, it's not susceptible to passive eavesdropping,
 isn't that good enough?
 I have to say yes, probably it is.
 - But you should be aware that there are holes.
 - Yes, it is, and there again,
 that's always where we draw the line,
 I wanna tell people what is possible,
 let them decide whether they care or not.
 - Whether it's probable.
 - Exactly, Microsoft has the problem
 that they are not securely authenticating,
 there is no authentication technology in Remote Desktop,
 and no secure certificates,
 they actually tried to fix this earlier this year
 and still didn't get it right.
 - Essentially, what you're saying is that it's secure,
 but it's not perfect.
 - It is deeply encrypted, it's very strongly encrypted,
 no one sniffing the traffic would ever be able to get it,
 and the only vulnerability in the desktop protocol,
 which is what they're using, RDP, Remote Desktop Protocol,
 is that if somebody really wanted,
 like knew you were gonna be using Remote Desktop,
 got all set up and managed to intercept
 and modify your traffic on the fly,
 I mean it's much more of a theoretical vulnerability,
 but it exists, it has been exploited,
 and software is on the net that allows this to be done,
 then somebody could, essentially without you knowing it,
 monitor everything you did remotely,
 mouse movements, typing on the keyboard,
 capturing your keystrokes, logging in with your email client,
 running on the other machine, and so forth,
 so it is like a theoretical exposure.
 - All right, we are out of time, I wish we had more,
 but you know what, we will do more every fourth episode,
 we'll answer more of your questions, so keep 'em coming.
 Next week, Steve, are we going to finally find
 that holy grail of safe computing on the road?
 - We're going to address a whole next aspect of VPN,
 the so-called PPTP, point-to-point tunneling protocol,
 and IPsec VPNs, which are implemented by Microsoft,
 and by so many of the later model consumer,
 small office, home office, the Soho routers,
 we're gonna talk about how that works,
 and how unfortunately Microsoft has deliberately made
 their built-in windows client incompatible with any of,
 or almost all of those routers.
 - So that's-- - But still,
 still some good solutions are available.
 - Do we have a silver bullet?
 - We're on the way, we're on the way.
 - All right, okay, we're getting close.
 Okay, well, ladies and gentlemen,
 that's it for this episode of Security Now, Episode 16.
 Thanks for all your questions.
 If you want more information, show notes are on grc.com/securitynow.html,
 as is a 16-kilobit version of this show,
 and transcripts, too, in all sorts of formats.
 So you can follow along with the home version of Security Now,
 or thanks to the folks at AOL Radio,
 who broadcast Security Now on their podcast channel,
 and very graciously provide us bandwidth,
 so that we can offer this podcast to you absolutely free,
 at aolmusic.com.
 I'm Leo LaPorte for Steve Gibson.
 Thanks for joining us in Security Now,
 we'll talk to you next week, Steve.
 - Bye, yeah, thanks.
 (upbeat music)
 (upbeat music)
 ♪ Security Now ♪
