 (upbeat music)
 - This is security now, episode 11,
 for October 27th, 2005.
 Web and MAC address filtering.
 (upbeat music)
 Right?
 - Yeah.
 - Steve, it's clear that talking about wireless security
 is a huge issue for people.
 It's complicated, there's a lot of acronyms,
 sort of an acronym soup area.
 And sadly, the vendors of these wireless routers
 are doing really dumb things.
 I ran across some pages in one book
 that showed the default WIP keys that some routers have.
 So they have keys that anybody who knew what they were doing
 could just crack right away.
 - I just, well, when I saw this,
 it's just like, my God, these people are never gonna learn.
 - Wow.
 - You know, it's like having, you know,
 a default administrative name and username and password.
 It's like, okay, that's just a bad idea.
 And so here they're like creating really good security
 or what they hope is really good security
 and then giving it default passwords.
 - Good Lord, amazing.
 But we, a whole ton of people posted
 to the security now page, all kinds of ideas
 and questions and things about our last week topic,
 which was the idea of open access points.
 And there are a couple of things that I thought
 we had covered that I guess we hadn't that I want to.
 And many people were wondering about MAC address filtering.
 But first of all, a question that we got several times
 was what about the legal implications
 of leaving your access point open on purpose
 so that other people can use it?
 And I would have thought we would have talked about it,
 but if not, we certainly want to,
 because of course that's the huge issue
 is if your neighbors are using your access point,
 then anything they're doing which is illegal
 and you might guess that maybe someone would tend
 to use somebody else's access point
 just specifically because of the inherent anonymity
 that they're gonna get.
 But any traffic which is back-tracked towards them
 is gonna hit your IP address.
 That is the IP of the open access point and stop there.
 I mean, that's the public IP for the access point.
 And at that point, it goes wireless
 and there's no way to track it beyond there.
 - So even if you wanna let people use,
 I mean, I think there's something to be said
 for being generous and letting people use your access point,
 you might wanna think twice about it
 just because you'll be liable for what they do on it.
 - Well, do you know your neighbors?
 Or maybe it doesn't even matter if you know your neighbors.
 So yes, I don't wanna discourage people from being generous
 and sort of having this community spirit of oh, you know,
 my bandwidth is a flat rate, I'm not paying per transfer,
 so I'd like to make it available.
 But again, as with so many things,
 as long as you know that the RIAA might come knocking
 at your door, I mean, and they are suing people
 and that any kind of file sharing, any file downloads,
 anyone who's like tracking malicious activity
 will come to the IP of your router,
 which is the same as your access point
 and stop at your location.
 - Certainly something to be aware of,
 although we're not legal experts,
 so the legality of it and so forth
 and what your liability is, I would have to leave to a lawyer.
 - You know, we've talked on several previous
 Twitch episodes a few months ago
 that there have been some strange legal judgments made.
 Like someone got sued for using someone else's open access.
 - Right, because he was doing it deliberately,
 they said, oh, well, that's an abuse
 of somebody else's computer network.
 It's like, oh, okay.
 - And we don't know yet what the upshot of that case
 will be, but yeah, it's kind of murky right now,
 to be honest, nobody's really codified,
 have this all stuff works and who's liable for what so.
 I guess it makes sense, there's also the other issue,
 then there's a real security issue of an open access point,
 even if you're using SSL and encrypting everything
 you're doing, it still gives people access
 to your network, right?
 - Oh, well, it does, although the switch provides
 some protection.
 Now, a couple of people who know a little bit more
 about the way ethernet switching happens,
 took issue with my saying that the fact
 that you had a switch on your access point was good,
 because it meant that your wired network traffic
 would not be going out over the air.
 Well, that's completely true, but it turns out,
 and this is absolutely true,
 that there are ways to penetrate switches,
 and we'll talk about that here in a couple of minutes,
 but we'll be talking about MAC address filtering,
 but it is the case that a switch can be breached,
 but in general, it's also true that the wired traffic
 is not just being gratuitously broadcast
 all over the neighborhood,
 which is certainly something you want to be aware of.
 But most routers are not switches.
 - Actually, most routers are switches.
 - Oh, they are, okay.
 - Yeah, so for example, a Lynxis router
 will have a four or eight port switch,
 and so it is, the idea behind a switch is
 that traffic is being sent to the end point
 that it's destined to not just broadcast out on all the wires
 or out over the air.
 - And that gives you some protection.
 - It gives you some protection,
 unless somebody really wanted to penetrate that.
 I guess I ought to talk briefly about how that's done.
 There's something called ARP spoofing.
 ARP stands for Address Resolution Protocol.
 The way Ethernet functions,
 Ethernet works on these things called MAC addresses,
 which is sort of the address of the physical interface.
 Every Ethernet card has a unique 48-bit MAC address.
 24 bits is of that 48 bits.
 That is half of the address.
 24 bits is assigned uniquely to each manufacturer,
 and then they have the other 24 bits.
 Actually, it's the least significant,
 the right hand 24 bits,
 which is a serial number,
 which they increment uniquely
 for every single device they create.
 The idea being that there is no provision
 on the Ethernet protocol
 for dealing with the collision of MAC addresses.
 That is two adapters both plugged into the same Ethernet
 are gonna have a problem
 if they've got the same MAC address.
 - Let me just kind of explain.
 MAC address is a unique number assigned
 to your network card.
 We're all network interface cards, wireless adapters,
 wireless access points.
 - Each have supposedly a unique MAC address.
 - Correct.
 - And is it guaranteed to be unique,
 or is it likely to be unique?
 - Well, it has to be unique for a local segment
 of an Ethernet that is all of the adapters
 that can see each other on the Ethernet.
 It has to be a unique MAC address.
 - So that's how the packet knows where to go?
 - Exactly, and in fact,
 that's where this address resolution protocol
 comes in. What happens is the,
 typically the gateway machine,
 that machine that is on the connection
 between your local network, your LAN and the WAN
 or another chunk of LAN,
 when it gets a packet that's destined for inside,
 it sends something called an ARP broadcast,
 basically saying, "Hey, who has this IP?"
 That is, which adapter out there
 is handling traffic for this IP address?
 'Cause a MAC address and an IP address are very different.
 The IP address, as we've talked about many times,
 is the unique address for the internet,
 which is different from the,
 sort of like the physical hardware address,
 which is the MAC address.
 So in response to this broadcast,
 which all adapters receive, one of them
 that has that IP assigned to it,
 says, "Oh, that's me."
 So it answers the request,
 saying that my adapter is assigned to this IP.
 So at that point,
 anything listening has the,
 it essentially begins to build up a map,
 gets information about which IPs
 are associated with which MAC addresses.
 So this is the way that a switch then learns
 on which wired connections,
 which MAC addresses are valid,
 and which IPs those are associated with.
 Okay, now--
 - Okay, I'm trying to follow this.
 It's a little complicated, folks,
 and this is one of your black diamond security now,
 podcast for the experts here.
 - Well, there's all the details.
 Now, the question that so many people
 wrote in to ask about after last week was,
 many people said, "You know, for whatever reason,
 "I'm not using any encryption.
 "I'm not using WEP, I'm not using WPA,
 "but I do want security on my wireless network."
 So I've taken advantage of what's called MAC address filtering.
 On my router, I'm able to give it a list of MAC addresses,
 that is the physical adapter,
 like the wireless adapter serial number,
 that I want to allow to have used my access point,
 is that secure?
 - Right.
 - And the answer is, not at all.
 - Now, but see, this is a surprise to me,
 because pretty much every corporation does this,
 we did it at Tech TV, the assumption being,
 well, by preventing non-registered MAC addresses
 from logging in, we're secure.
 - Yep, why is it not secure?
 - Absolutely not secure.
 - Why not?
 It seems like it would work.
 - It's what I was referring to when I said,
 it's hard to believe that router manufacturers
 are offering something, which is completely bypassable,
 but that's what's going on.
 - So I just want to mention one more time,
 so people understand, this is the setting,
 usually called MAC address filtering,
 that most routers have,
 and what you'll do is you'll get the MAC address
 of all the different wireless cards
 that you want to allow to connect to your access point,
 and you'll enter into a table,
 and if this filtering is turned on,
 only cards with that MAC address, in theory,
 will be able to log into your access point.
 It seems like the ultimate in security,
 it's an affirmative security policy,
 saying only these people can get in.
 - Yes, it is a feel good.
 - Oh my god, you're really bumming me out here.
 - Well, so what happens?
 Do we spoof it?
 How do we crack that?
 - Yes, that's the problem,
 is that the MAC address is the front of every packet sent,
 says, basically, I'm going to this MAC address
 from this MAC address, which means anyone
 with any sniffer software instantly sees
 all the authorized MAC addresses
 for the wireless network.
 - Well, not all of them, all the active ones.
 - All the active ones.
 - So they watch traffic that's legitimate traffic,
 they capture even one packet,
 they've got the MAC address that they can spoof.
 - Yes, they have a valid MAC address,
 which has been authorized and recognized by the access point,
 and they can simply use it.
 (laughing)
 It's that bad.
 - You know what, that provides no security at all.
 So in other words, I'm a bad guy,
 I'm sitting outside of Big Bank Incorporated.
 Big Bank Incorporated believes in wireless,
 but believes in secure wireless,
 and says only these MAC addresses can connect.
 So I just capture one packet of somebody
 talking to their router.
 I say, "Oh, there's their MAC address."
 I put in almost every program allows you to spoof MAC addresses,
 that's trivial.
 In fact, your router allows you to spoof
 its MAC address very often.
 - Well, in fact, many user interfaces
 allow you to specify a MAC address.
 - A MAC address, for whatever reason.
 There's nothing at all special about a MAC address.
 It's just a 48-bit serial number.
 - Now, wait a minute, though.
 You said that only one device can have that MAC address.
 So I cannot get on while that other one is on still.
 - Well, actually you can, because there's nothing
 to prevent two devices from using the same one.
 That is to say, it'll be a little confusing
 for the other one, which is receiving traffic
 that's bound for it.
 But that happens all the time.
 So if you adapt or, sorry, adopt the MAC address
 of some other machine, then it'll go to the access point.
 The access point checks the MAC address
 against its list of authorized MAC addresses,
 see that it's valid, and accepts the traffic from it.
 - Wow.
 So, okay.
 So there are plenty of more advanced things
 that can be done as well.
 There are ways to disassociate a remote machine
 from the access point using the wireless protocol.
 So, I mean, this is something that's been researched
 extensively.
 There are ways you can disconnect one machine
 and then connect yourself in.
 - So you can knock the other guy off.
 - The short version of this is it provides zero protection.
 I mean, it would protect your access point
 from a neighbor casually connecting,
 or maybe, as often happens, mistakenly connecting.
 There was a true story that I heard,
 this is not an urban legend,
 from a security guy who went to one of his client's homes
 who was complaining that something was wrong
 with his wireless connection.
 And when he looked, it had an Apple Airport SSID.
 Well, this was a Windows guy.
 And he said, you know, I've got a Linksys wireless router here,
 not an Apple airport.
 So, they unplugged his Linksys wireless router,
 and he stayed connected.
 - He still wants.
 - He was using, without knowing it,
 he was using his neighbor's wireless connection.
 So, then they shut his system down
 and reconfigured things, turned it back on,
 and it's like, oh, now I'm connected correctly.
 But then they realized they forgot
 to plug his router back in.
 Now he was using somebody else's wireless access point.
 There were several of them within radio range,
 and his system was just grabbing whatever one came along.
 So, I mean, there are certainly cases
 where locking down and filtering MAC addresses
 would prevent casual misuse of your access point.
 And so, I don't wanna say it's completely useless.
 It will certainly prevent casual use,
 but it should never be confused with security.
 It is not security.
 - Well, it's similar to the SSID hiding
 that some people advocate,
 where you hide the name of your router
 so that people don't see it.
 But that's, in fact, it's almost identical to that
 because it hides it only from those
 who aren't using packet sniffers,
 but everybody else can see it just fine.
 - Exactly.
 Anyone who wanted access to your access point
 would still be able to get it without any trouble at all.
 - So, we've eliminated the use of MAC address filtering,
 SSID hiding and weapon encryption.
 It sounds like the only way to secure wireless networking
 is with WPA encryption.
 - Well, that's really true.
 And what I wanna do is for the balance
 of this second podcast about wireless,
 is I wanna talk about weapon encryption
 because it's, again, it's so tantalizing
 and it was the legacy encryption technology
 which has been obsoleteed,
 but because older equipment doesn't support
 the stronger WPA encryption,
 many people are using weapon encryption
 because that's all they've got,
 or it's there or, you know,
 they've heard that it's not secure,
 but they've really never taken it very seriously.
 - Well, and this is also,
 this story is really a very good object lesson
 in how not to design a security protocol.
 - Well, what happened is really interesting.
 It was designed by the WEP, this original encryption,
 was designed without consulting security people.
 It was a security protocol designed by engineers
 who had the best of intentions, but weren't security people.
 It's a security protocol that sounded like a good idea
 at the time.
 - Well, and for example,
 it uses an extremely good cipher technology called RC4.
 That's an RSA proprietary cipher
 which is very good for encrypting
 as long as you use it correctly.
 And that's really the key.
 The foundation of weapon encryption
 with this RC4 cipher is extremely strong.
 But it was used in a very bad way.
 For example, an absolutely unbreakable encryption
 is something called the one-time pad.
 With a one-time pad, and this was used
 by the US military in early world wars,
 and was never broken because it is unbreakable.
 And I don't say that casually.
 I mean, really truly unbreakable.
 Not like, oh, there are enough computer power.
 It would take X billion, billion years.
 No, unbreakable.
 The idea is that you generate random numbers.
 And now that's super critical.
 The numbers have to be really, truly random.
 - Now that's hard for a computer to do, in fact.
 - Well, it's very hard.
 And in fact, back in World War I,
 it was the bingo bowl approach
 where they had a whole bunch of letters,
 A through Z in a big ball that rolled around
 and the cage spit one out.
 And they wrote this down on a pad of paper,
 which is why it's called a one-time pad.
 And then they put that ball back in,
 wait a minute, pull the next one out.
 So they ended up with a pad of paper
 with letters A through Z, really, really, really random.
 Then they mixed the message
 that they wanted to send with this pad.
 And in the case of mixing, for example,
 it would take the letter you wanted to send.
 You would look up the first spot on the pad
 and it would be A through Z.
 Well, that told you how far along in the alphabet
 to shift the letter you wanted to send,
 sort of like forward.
 And so that would convert your letter A through Z
 to a different alphabetical letter A through Z,
 having sort of rotated it forward in the alphabet
 by the amount specified on the pad.
 Well, clearly, that would create a completely scrambled message.
 What's amazing is it's impossible to decrypt it.
 There is not enough information contained in that message.
 Well, a short message.
 If you had a long message eventually,
 you'd see a pattern, right?
 No, no.
 'Cause you keep reusing, you keep changing it.
 Yes, every, oh, you left out a key part.
 You left out a key part.
 Every single letter.
 For the second letter, you use the second position
 in your one-time pad.
 The third letter, the third position.
 So there are no repeats.
 And you never reuse your one-time pad ever, ever, ever.
 Now, it turns out that some of our foreign adversaries
 also had the idea of a one-time pad.
 They made the mistake of reusing it.
 All it took to break their encoding
 because reusing it and comparing these encrypted messages
 was essentially a huge mistake.
 But so the idea is when you receive this message,
 if you have the same one-time pad,
 and that was the problem with this approach,
 was that once this was generated,
 then the recipient had to have an identical copy
 of this pad.
 But for example, if you were a submarine operator,
 before you left port, you'd get a whole suitcase
 full of these one-time pad sheets.
 And then that's what your decryption officer would use
 in order to decrypt these messages.
 And once used, that pad was destroyed
 and it would never be used again.
 That's an unbreakable cryptography.
 I mean, truly unbreakable.
 Now, the reason, just as a side note,
 the reason computers are not good at random numbers
 is because they use an algorithm,
 which inevitably repeats.
 Well, yes.
 So they're called pseudo-random numbers.
 They're not really random.
 Yes, exactly.
 And in fact, a computer just,
 it can't generate anything random.
 It's a deterministic math machine
 that is always gonna go from one place to another.
 There's not enough chaos.
 Compute, yes, and in fact, at some computer,
 they have photo cells aimed at lava lamps.
 (laughing)
 Which are not kidding.
 They are chaotic.
 They use lava lamps to generate
 cryptographically strong random numbers.
 I love that.
 Because it's just, it's like weather patterns.
 I mean, it is chaotic physics
 and it is non-deterministic.
 Now, computers can do a very good job
 with generating random numbers.
 And that's what this RC4 algorithm does.
 It is an extremely good pseudo-random number generator.
 The idea is you give it a key
 and that's the encryption key that web uses.
 And using that key,
 it scrambles its initial condition
 in a pattern based on the key.
 From that point on,
 it generates very good random numbers.
 Now, it then uses this stream of random numbers
 to, in the same way as a one-time pad,
 to encrypt any communication going between endpoints.
 The access point has the same key.
 It uses this string of random numbers
 to perform the encryption.
 And then the recipient has the same key.
 It's why it's called a pre-shared key or PSK.
 It uses the same key with its RC4 algorithm
 to generate an identical stream
 of the pseudo-random numbers,
 which it then essentially mixes again
 in order to restore the original message.
 Well, it's a good idea, except it was used badly.
 For example, there was in the initial implementation,
 an access point would authenticate
 someone who wanted to connect with it.
 By sending it, it would just make up some message
 of any sort, and it would send it to somebody
 who wanted to connect.
 The endpoint that wanted to connect
 would use its key to encrypt that message,
 whatever it was, it could just be randomness and send it back.
 The access point would then decrypt it
 and compare it with the message it sent.
 Well, from an engineering standpoint,
 that sounds like a secure thing,
 because that was a way for the machine
 that wanted to connect to prove that it had the key,
 because only if it had the key,
 would it be able to encrypt what the access point sent properly,
 so that when the access point decrypted it,
 it would compare properly to what was originally sent.
 What they forgot was that somebody sniffing
 would see the in the clear text go
 to the end that wanted to authenticate itself
 and would see the encrypted response.
 Well, since it had the in the clear text and the response,
 it had everything it needed to decrypt basically
 to decrypt the encryption and determine trivially
 what the pseudo-random sequence was
 that the shared key was generating.
 So in order to decrypt web, all you need
 is enough information.
 Well, and in the case of this horrible authentication
 protocol, which, by the way, has since been removed,
 because it was so bad, literally you did what's called
 an exclusive or an exor of the encrypted message
 and the plain text, the unencrypted message,
 and what you got out was the stream
 of pseudo-random numbers.
 But how do you get the unencrypted message, though?
 Because that's what the access point sent initially
 to tell the end point to encrypt, which is amazing.
 So you really only have to get a little data
 and you can see the whole-- you get the key and you're done.
 What that meant was that then when the eavesdropper wanted
 to authenticate, he would say, hi there, authenticate me.
 Well, the access point would send a different test
 jumble to him.
 He didn't have to have the key, because he already
 figured out what the pseudo-random stream was
 that resulted from the key.
 So he just used that to encrypt the message and sent it back.
 And it was a perfect match.
 And so he's on.
 And so he's on.
 Now, that's not the same as being
 able to communicate from there on.
 But it turns out that, I mean, that's
 typical of the mistakes that were made.
 The web technology is so badly broken that, given about an hour,
 it's possible to crack it for sure.
 Sometimes you crack it sooner.
 Sometimes it takes a little bit longer.
 There are newer attacks, which are
 able to stimulate the access point to generate much more
 traffic than it normally would in order
 to get it to give more samples of its use of the key, which
 then using any freely downloadable software.
 I mean, there's like 10 or 15 different web decryption
 packages now.
 And people are spitting them out just
 because it's sort of fun sport.
 So if you're--
 didn't these engineers realize the flaw here?
 No.
 And why not?
 The other thing, for example, is, I mean, it's just--
 the more you read about this, and I've studied this extensively,
 this looks like mistake after mistake after mistake, it turns
 out that because they knew they couldn't use exactly the same
 key over and over and over, because that would generate
 exactly the same pseudo-random sequence used for encryption.
 What they did was they said, OK, we're
 going to have a 24-bit counter on the front,
 and a 104-bit encryption code.
 That's where this 104 comes from.
 Some people have seen a 40-bit key or a 104-bit key.
 Well, if you add 24 to 40, you get 64, which is one
 of our favorite binary lengths.
 If you add 24 to 104, you get 128, which is another one
 of our nice binary lengths, 128 bits.
 That's where this 104 comes from, is it's 128 bits minus 24.
 So they put a counter on the front of the key, and every
 time a message is used, the access point sends the counter
 and then uses the rest of the 104 bits with the counter
 to encrypt the message.
 The problem is, it turns out, that RC4 has weak keys.
 That is, some percentage of keys don't do a good job
 of pre-scrambling its initial state, so that it ends
 up not generating good random numbers.
 So every so often, just in the normal use of traffic going
 over a web, every access point, every web-based device
 will encrypt with a bad key, since the receiver has to have
 that 24 bits to know which key was used.
 That's sent in the clear.
 So anything sniffing is able to say, oh, there's a bad key,
 because now bad keys are well known.
 So anyway, the bottom line is, web is really,
 really, really badly broken.
 And if they had just asked, any security expert would have
 immediately seen the problem and said, no, you can't do it
 that way.
 Oh, exactly, I mean, anyone who understood that RC4 was a
 good pseudo-random number generator, but you can't trust
 it in this application for many reasons.
 For example, if you just throw away the first 256 bytes
 that it generates, after a while, it gets going and it does
 a good job.
 But right off the bat, what it's spitting out is not very
 random.
 Well, it turns out, that's the header of the packets.
 And headers have a very well-defined format, which means
 knowing what the headers are is something any TCP or IP
 engineer has.
 So knowing what it is, you can subtract that from the
 encrypted message and get the random bytes back.
 I mean, it's just horrible.
 So really now, what we've learned is, and we knew this
 before, web doesn't work.
 Now we know why web doesn't work.
 That's one of the forms of encryption on wireless access.
 Well, it's the original encryption.
 It's in any system which supports wireless encryption.
 Web will be there.
 And sort of may be encouraged.
 People tend to use it because they may have an older laptop
 or an older wireless adapter that only supports web.
 Now there is, and we're going to talk about next week, how
 to really lock down a wireless system.
 There is a free WPA client running around.
 And XP supports WPA.
 As does OS 10.
 So any modern operating system, you'll be able to use WPA.
 And maybe a firmware upgrade on your router will make it
 support WPA.
 Yes, that's very often the case, is that the original firmware
 now, the good news is that WPA is extremely good because
 web was extremely bad that we learned.
 That is, what happened is, web was so badly broken and was
 such an embarrassment to the 802.11 guys, the folks that
 were doing this, was that this time for round two, serious
 security oversight was given.
 And then the new protocols, TKIP, which was deliberately
 designed to be retrofitable into older hardware.
 So with this background now, next week we're going to talk
 about what you do to really be secure with wireless and how
 and why that really works in a very secure fashion.
 And you can no longer live in a fool's paradise thinking
 that you're secure because you've got web or MAC address
 filtering or SSID hiding.
 None of those do anything at all.
 Yeah, MAC address filtering is good because it will prevent
 casual, inadvertent misuse of your network.
 As will web.
 Well, yes.
 And in fact, you certainly--
 web is better than nothing.
 And also, if you change your web key often, it's normally
 the case, for example, that it used to be that a busy access
 point would run through all of its keys in about seven hours.
 Now it turns out, you can stimulate an access point to
 just pour these keys out and make it much more--
 basically bring the average cracking time down to about
 an hour.
 So we'd have to change our keys every hour to be safe.
 Yeah, well, and the good news is that's what TKIP does.
 It's a temporal key integrity protocol that keeps the keys
 changing.
 And it never actually uses the master keys in the
 transfer of the packets.
 It's the other mistake that web made is this pre-shared key,
 this key that each endpoint has, is what's being used to do
 the encryption.
 So once you have that, you've got literally the keys to
 the kingdom.
 With WPA, the keys are used to derive other keys, which are
 then used for encryption.
 It's really so much better.
 Well, save all this for next time.
 Maybe you'll explain to me, WPA, WPA, PSK, WPA, TKIP, and
 all the other little acronyms.
 I have to say one thing, WPA is much easier to use than web,
 because you don't have to do these long hexadecimal
 strings for your pass key.
 You can use regular passwords, so by itself, that's a good
 reason to shift.
 And by the way, there are attacks.
 I'll just say, if we're moving people from web over to WPA,
 take the time when you're reconfiguring to come up with
 a really good long pass phrase, because WPA is prone to
 dictionary attacks, which we've talked about before with
 passwords.
 So in the same way that you want to use a really good, strong
 password, meaning numbers in letters and things that are
 not an dictionary, even WPA can be prone to dictionary-style
 attacks.
 Steve Gibson, we've done it again explaining the lack of
 security and wireless.
 And I think I have to say, every place I've gone, and I
 could think of some places, including tech TV, has used
 MAC address filtering to learn that it's useless, is just
 kind of a shocker for me, frankly.
 And again, as we've often said, a false sense of security is
 worse than none at all.
 People thinking that MAC address filtering is going to really
 protect them and be better than wet, for example.
 And it's a pain to implement, because you have to figure out
 what your MAC address is, and then take it to the priest, the
 guy who holds the keys and say, here it is, please, sir, may
 I have access, and it's doing nothing.
 I love it.
 If you want to take this information to your boss or your
 IT supervisor and explain to him why what he's doing isn't
 making a hillabeanes difference, go to grc.com/securitynow.html.
 And all of this will be explained in detail.
 There's also a low-fi 16-kilobit version of this for people
 who don't have the bandwidth or the space to store a larger
 file, as well as transcripts for those bosses who can't
 actually figure out how to listen to a podcast.
 We want to thank Jamie Diamond, our high school
 sophomore for our opening theme, and Mark Blasko for our
 closing theme.
 Of course, the great folks at AOL Radio who broadcast
 security now on their podcast channel, but also provide us
 the bandwidth for download at AOLMusic.com.
 We appreciate the support.
 Steve Gibson, thanks for joining us.
 We'll talk next week about really, truly, for once and for
 all, locking down wireless access.
 Absolutely.
 Because the web is so huge, just 10 billion pages, you just
 can't go out there looking at every single page.
 You know, what kind of jump is out there?
 Zombie machines, packers, new words, malicious websites.
 All known, zero-day exploits affecting people's machines
 with spyware is becoming a business model.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
