 [MUSIC]
 This is Security Now with Steve Gibson, episode 21 for January 5th, 2006, the WMF vulnerability.
 [MUSIC]
 Hey, I'm Skype today because we're going to do a little conference call.
 Steve Gibson joining us from Irvine.
 I'm in Northern California and soon to join us.
 Ilfak, you know, we're talking about the Windows Metafile WMF vulnerability.
 Steve, why don't you recap the story so far?
 And I have to tell you, Leo, that with this new microphone,
 even Skype sounds pretty good.
 You sound really good.
 Hello.
 With your PR40.
 Yep.
 Okay, so the Windows Metafile vulnerability is something which was
 came to light due to its exploitation.
 The good news is that the people who figured this out did not go stealth with it.
 Although, on the other hand, of course, we don't know how long this might have been used secretly
 before it came to light of public attention.
 And that's an important point because this is what we called this a zero-day vulnerability.
 In other words, the exploits emerged immediately.
 But in fact, it was the exploits that introduced us to the vulnerability.
 It wasn't Microsoft that announced it or was it?
 Or was it as a security firm that announced it?
 Who first discovered it?
 Was it Sans Institute or?
 The timing was so close.
 I don't know.
 Although, certainly Microsoft did have a notice up on, I believe it was on the 27th.
 On Tuesday, the 27th, they put up a notice saying that they realized there was a problem.
 It was in active exploitation and they then set about fixing it.
 So we really don't know how long the exploits have been going on, frankly.
 No.
 I mean, in fact, there have been people, sort of the conspiracy theorist people, who wonder,
 you know, that the NSA or CIA or, you know, shadowy government bodies might not have access
 to our machines with, you know, knowledge or not of unknown and still undisclosed vulnerabilities.
 Because this is like a backdoor, not an intentional backdoor.
 But it's very, it gives you that functionality.
 It's essentially a backdoor into Windows that Microsoft didn't mean to put in there.
 It has been there as far as, as long as we can tell.
 Actually, as we know, it's a backdoor that they did mean to put in there.
 This thing was designed in.
 It's not a mistake.
 It's, it's always been there.
 And someone realized, hey, we can use this to run whatever code we want on users' computers.
 It was done in a day, I guess, and we've talked about this before, when programmers assumed
 the benevolence of their users and so gave them capabilities, not assuming that their users
 would be malicious.
 But, of course, now we all, all programmers are, are trained to assume that users are
 malicious and to make sure they don't include this kind of code.
 It's a whole different mindset today.
 When the vulnerability was discovered on Tuesday, Microsoft offered a kind of a rude fix for
 it, which was essentially to unregister a DLL.
 Turns out that wasn't a very good fix.
 And very quickly, a fellow named Ilfak Geilinov stepped forward.
 Who was Ilfak?
 Ilfak has actually been known within the developer community for quite a while.
 He's the lead developer for a company called Data Rescue.
 He's largely responsible for an amazing disassembler called the IDA disassembler, which is really
 highly useful for anyone who's trying to take a blob of code to which they do not have the
 tools and figure out how it works and so, like, for people who are disassembling and reverse
 engineering viruses and other kinds of malware, it's a very powerful tool for giving them a
 look into unknown code.
 I wonder if he used his disassembler to figure out what the WMF interpreter was doing.
 I have no doubt that he did.
 In fact, I will be if I end up writing a patch for Windows 9X.
 Interesting.
 Well, we're fortunate enough.
 He lives in Liege, Belgium, and it is after 10 o'clock at night there, but he were fortunate
 enough to be able to talk to Ilfak right now.
 So let's dial him in via Skype.
 Hello, Ilfak.
 Hi.
 Hi.
 This is Leo.
 Nice to see you.
 Steve is with us.
 Hi, Ilfak.
 Hi, Steve.
 And we all are good.
 I'm so glad that you could join us for this.
 Ilfak, the one thing that I've seen mixed issues about is whether this is a, whether this
 vulnerability is created by a buffer, overrun bug in the Windows Metafile processing, or
 is it just taking advantage of a feature which is working correctly and has always been there?
 It is the latter, the second.
 It's not a buffer overflow.
 It is some things that is by design.
 So the design of this WMA files allows to specify a code sequence to be executed.
 And this code sequence is in the file itself, so anything can be happened.
 And Windows makes no check on what that arbitrary code is.
 It just allows you to execute any code at all.
 Does the code have the same privileges as the running user?
 Yes.
 Wow.
 So if your running is an administrator, that's where the issue occurs.
 If you were running as a limited user, would you have a problem?
 Well, you will still have problems like, for example, this malicious code could destroy,
 could delete your files or do something bad to your data.
 Anything you could do.
 Yeah.
 But of course, when you're running as administrator, that includes installing a Trojan horse or
 other malware.
 Yeah.
 Everything can be done to your competitors.
 Yeah.
 So this means that this code, or this feature rather, has always been there.
 And that I mean, like for 15 years at least.
 And that so suddenly someone realized had basically had an inspiration that they could
 use this long standing feature working correctly in Windows in order to leverage attacks against
 users who opened images.
 Yes.
 Oh, they just found it by chance by just looking at the code, the specification of these WMA files.
 And they thought, okay, that's something we can do with the, we can do anything with the computer.
 If you feed it, specially crafted WMA file.
 It's really amazing that this whole has existed for so long.
 Do you think anybody knew about it before but was keeping a secret?
 Well, I think that since the feature exists that since long ago, there were people knowing about it.
 But they were not looking at it as something to explore it.
 Oh, this feature is my design.
 So it can be used for good, not only for bad things.
 What do you think Microsoft will do then with this patch in order to eliminate this without
 breaking any applications that may have actually been using this in the way it was intended?
 Oh, it's a very, very tough question.
 I wonder what Microsoft will do with this.
 I don't know, really, I don't know because the feature itself is the vulnerability.
 So in fact, what does your program do?
 Is it completely disable Windows Metaphiles?
 No, it doesn't disable the files.
 It just disables one single function in these files.
 It's the function that executes this arbitrary code.
 So that's presumably something Microsoft could do.
 Yeah.
 I wonder if it would break a lot of software.
 Have you heard reports that your patch is causing problems for people?
 Yes.
 There were some reports like an old printer does not print anymore or something like that.
 I heard about problems with printing related problems.
 So there might be some broken applications.
 Well, in fact, that was something that you expected and talked about early on when this
 began to spread that is when your patch began to be used last weekend was that it was clear
 that this involved printer related aspects of Windows Metaphiles.
 Yes.
 I put a warning on my blog saying if you apply this patch, there might be some bad consequences
 like printing problems or something else.
 I cannot tell, I cannot tell, but there might be bad problems.
 In fact, you fixed the problem for Windows 2000 and Windows XP.
 But as I understand it, the problem also exists for Windows 95, 98, and ME.
 Is that true?
 Oh, there were different opinions about this.
 And I still don't know for sure if these systems are vulnerable or not.
 They use completely different code.
 XP and 98 systems are different in this.
 They use different GDI DLL library.
 So I just cannot tell if they are vulnerable or not.
 But most likely they are not.
 Now, your vulnerability checker does say that the system, when run on a 98 system, that
 it may be vulnerable.
 But then it may be.
 I just, you know, I don't have the computer with 98 and I cannot check myself.
 That's, that's, that's.
 What's interesting is that Microsoft has just reissued their standard, their standard policy
 page.
 They've moved the nine X and ME systems off of that, which were previously listed.
 And in the FAQ section, they're saying now that they are, they don't consider this to
 be a critical vulnerability because they haven't found an explicit way that this vulnerability
 could be used.
 And presumably it means they're not going to be patching the nine, nine X and ME systems.
 Since no one knows if you're vulnerable, it's kind of a little bit scary.
 What I've told people on my site is that if Microsoft doesn't fix this, I will.
 In fact, how did you come to know about this vulnerability and how did you write the
 fix so quickly?
 I learned about it as everyone else from the news, just on the internet.
 And I thought that it was a really dangerous vulnerability this time because it just goes
 through the browser and that's all.
 Microsoft did a kind of a very broad patch, but recommended a very broad patch, which
 is just to unregister the DLL.
 Did you feel that that was inadequate and decided to do something better?
 Well, since the problem itself is not in this unreached DLL, I felt that it might not be
 enough in all cases.
 That's why I developed my patch.
 Well, and you were, of course, completely correct.
 The shell image viewer DLL, which is the one that Microsoft was recommending be unregistered,
 it was a sort of a quick workaround that Microsoft felt comfortable recommending early on.
 But it was even then well known that there were other ways you could get windows to
 parse a file that turned out to be a Windows Metafile.
 Even if it didn't have a WMF extension, because Microsoft's looking inside the header of the
 file, and it was clearly not a good recommendation, although it may have been all Microsoft could
 do at the time.
 Right.
 In fact, how many people downloaded that file from your site before hex blog was shut down?
 That's a difficult question because my site went down and I could not even check my logs.
 Oh my.
 So you don't know?
 No, I don't know exactly.
 Steve, you've downloaded, you've had at least 200,000 visits to the page, yes?
 Yes, we have actually now we've crossed a quarter million.
 Our episode number 20 show notes crossed a quarter million viewings earlier today.
 It's at 252,711.
 So, I mean, this has clearly been.
 I mean, I've been seeing more site traffic myself at GRC than I've seen in a long time.
 And interestingly, Tuesday was even busier than Monday, and Wednesday was busier than Tuesday.
 Today, it's quieting down and slowing down a little bit, but it's really, I mean, it's
 the word spread.
 The need for this has been, you know, really widespread.
 In fact, did you expect that what has happened was going to happen?
 That there would just be this incredible demand for what you wrote just basically for yourself,
 right?
 I mean, I didn't expect anything like that.
 I just looked at this as a technical problem.
 I wanted to solve it like to protect my computer and to present it to others.
 And it's up to them if they want to use it, if they don't want to use it again.
 It's their choice, I respect it.
 But it turned out to be much bigger than I thought.
 Well, in this point, PC Magazine, E-Week, Steve Gibson, and many others have recommended the
 ill-fact patch.
 As far as I know, it's the only effective patch out there.
 You are updating it.
 It looks like you have updated it.
 You're now at version 1.4.
 Tell me about the updates.
 Do they change the functionality of the patch?
 No, they don't change anything in the patch itself.
 So if the very first version of patch works for you, there's no need to install or reinstall
 anything, it works pretty well, and it's the same protection as in the first version.
 The first version, on the last version, will give you the same protection.
 The only difference is that the first versions were not compatible with all systems.
 And each new release was adding the support for a new version of the operating system
 like Windows 2000 or ESP2 or something like that.
 That's the only difference between the releases.
 Well, in fact, that was how you and I first communicated, was you and I worked to add Windows
 2000 compatibility to your very first release.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly.
 Well, we want to thank you on behalf of the entire Internet community, of fact.
 Obviously, what you've done is you jumped into the fray when Microsoft was unwilling to,
 and frankly, risk liability doing so.
 And I think it's very brave of you, and I think it's a really great contribution.
 So thank you very, very much.
 I've run it, and I know everybody else who's listening has.
 Yes.
 Thanks, Novak.
 I'm certain it's of any help.
 Well, and certainly, we now know that there are literally hundreds of websites that are
 distributing images trying to take advantage of this exploit.
 And who knows how many computers your patch has actively helped prevent being taken over
 by whatever malware was being used by this exploit in order to move it into people's computers.
 Oh, we don't know, but let's hope that we have protected as many countries as you could.
 Well, of course, that raises the issue that if you were already infected, running ELFEX
 patch isn't going in any way, remove any malware on your system.
 It's just going to prevent further infections, but your infection is still there.
 Yeah, and of course, it raises an interesting point.
 People keep asking, "How do I know if I've been infected by this?"
 And they misunderstand what the this is, the exploit is sort of like creates an open door
 that allows anything else to be carried into your computer.
 So it's not so much that you're being infected by this exploit as much as, you know, it's
 being used to install, Lord only knows, what, into your machine.
 And even if you close the barn door, the horse may well be gone.
 ELFEX, I know it's late in Liège, so we thank you so much for joining us.
 Thank you Steve.
 Thank you, Lord.
 And once again, thank you for the great job you did.
 Thank you.
 ELFEX wheeling off.
 Take care.
 Good night.
 Good night.
 Great to talk to ELFEX.
 And I didn't want to scare him, but I did raise the issue.
 You know why Microsoft is slow to release these, of course, is the liability issues if the patch
 goes wrong or is perceived to go wrong by people.
 Well, and it has happened before, that they've come out with a security patch which has broken
 other things.
 They did one in fact that we've referred to in a prior podcast where they messed up some
 aspect of segment size.
 I can't remember exactly what it was now, but for example, it caused VPNs that the corporations
 were using to suddenly break after the corporations deployed the patch.
 So yeah, I mean, it's really understandable.
 Now, we should mention that by the time anyone hears this, Microsoft's final, real official
 patch for Windows and for this whole Windows Metafile vulnerability will be publicly available.
 Let's talk about that because it leaked out earlier, right?
 It leaked out Tuesday night, actually.
 And normally Microsoft waits till the second Tuesday of the month for their patch cycle.
 So you're saying on Thursday, the fifth, at what time they're going to release the official
 patch.
 It's at 2 p.m. on the West, which of course is 5 p.m. Eastern, just about as we record
 this in fact.
 Right.
 Well, a little bit after we're recording it, it'll be made available.
 And this will be the official patch.
 I was notified that it was available Tuesday.
 I quickly grabbed it.
 I took great pains, of course, to check the digital signature chain to make sure that
 this was, I mean, really, truly from Microsoft.
 And I verified that the root certificate that was anchoring the trust chain, of course,
 we'll be talking about all of this stuff in podcasts very quickly, I mean, very, very
 soon here in 2006, I verified that it was the same root certificate that had signed other
 patches, official patches from Microsoft.
 So the only way for that to be true is if this file that I had downloaded from some file
 archiving site was truly signed by Microsoft.
 Let me ask you, did you run the patch?
 I did.
 And did it fix the vulnerability?
 In other words, did the tester that ELFAC has written come up clean?
 Yes.
 It fixed the vulnerability, and what was interesting, what I wanted to verify for everyone was
 that there wasn't any problem interaction between what ELFAC had done and what Microsoft
 has done.
 Right.
 Because, and of course, I did review the source code when I was working with ELFAC on this
 last weekend.
 So I knew that, I mean, I knew to expect no problem, and so my advice had been to go
 ahead and install Microsoft's patch when it's available, and then remove ELFACs.
 See what his does is actually it suppresses the vulnerability.
 It doesn't actually patch the files as you and I talked about in our, in our special
 edition of episode 20 over the weekend, is it, it just prevents this from happening without
 actually modifying, physically modifying the file, it makes some in-memory changes that
 just sort of kills that function that ELFAC was explaining is something deliberately
 that's always been part of Windows Metafile.
 So his program loads on boot and runs in memory, blocks it, but Microsoft's will actually
 patch the, presumably will patch the underlying file, at which point you would want to uninstall
 ELFACs patch.
 There's no reason to have that running in memory.
 Correct.
 And, and the other thing that was really interesting is that Microsoft's file, the, the version
 of the new GDI 32 DLL, which is the file, the single file that's changed, it was dated
 Wednesday evening of last week, meaning they really did jump on this immediately, and we're
 able to fix it.
 Yes.
 It seems like it'd be a simple thing to fix, you just, you know, you turn off that arbitrary
 code execution.
 Well, I mean, and, and that really is the issue.
 It's, and I don't yet know, and ELFAC doesn't know.
 I don't think anyone knows until we look at the code or until Microsoft formally states
 what it is they've done.
 I mean, they have actually had to turn off on perhaps turn off a feature, which Windows
 Metafile Processing has had from its inception, and some GDI printers will expect.
 Well, yes, which is certainly a feature that's going to have some interaction.
 Now, I, I received a blurb because I've been in the middle of all this here for the last
 week.
 Nothing else has been done over at GRC except, you know, deal dealing with this.
 And I may, in fact, find myself writing a patch for Windows 9x and ME users if Microsoft
 doesn't address it, as it looks like they're, they're not planning to, which is, which is
 distressing a lot of people.
 Well, they've ended up, I think they're, I have line on those products.
 They don't, they don't, well, probably support it.
 Actually not.
 No.
 I check, I check that out.
 And they are officially supporting 98 and ME through June of 2006.
 They had, they had originally said they were going to end it.
 I think sometime in 2004 and there was such a hue and cry from people saying, Hey, wait
 a minute.
 We're still using these things and the code's buggy.
 We need you to keep it current.
 So they said, Oh, okay, fine.
 And, but so arguably they really should patch Windows 98, but apparently they have no plans
 to.
 Well, we'll see.
 I mean, they may.
 Anyway, do what today.
 They do it later.
 I heard a quote from someone who actually it was a, it was a press person who forwarded
 to me something from Microsoft's website.
 It was a, I think a PR person that he was speaking with saying that as a consequence
 of this, they're going to be reexamining other things like this.
 And he said, you know, what do you make of this, Steve?
 And so, you know, decoding it from, you know, PR speak, it sounded like exactly what Ilfak
 has said.
 And now this all sort of makes sense.
 They may have looked in the past at, at opportunities for buffer overruns, but this was not a buffer
 overrun.
 This was written in the days when nobody was thinking about security.
 It made sense.
 It made sense to write a feature that if the file format is corrupted or fails, you have
 a, you're allowed a fallback routine.
 And it sounds like if they did it in this, they may have done it in many, many other
 situations.
 Well, and what's really interesting is that the image itself, or that is to say the windows
 meta file itself contains the code which you can cause it to execute.
 So it was, I mean, it was literally like by design an image file would contain executable
 code.
 Well, I guess, I'm just guessing reading tea leaves that the idea was you'd have, you
 would put some sort of fallback routine if the GDI calls weren't, I would imagine an
 issue was if the GDI calls weren't supported, maybe there were various versions of GDI.
 And if a printer didn't support the calls necessary to render the image, then you could
 have a fallback routine in the image, something like that.
 Yeah.
 And I bet you that that's a, that's a technique that Microsoft has used widely, which means
 hackers are going to be looking for other areas to exploit.
 And there may be many.
 Well, certainly with our current understanding of security, no one in their right mind would
 create a file format, which can take, you know, executable code, literally where you
 could put binary code in.
 Now, you know, there are, you know, people having all kinds of problems with scripting.
 And I know that, you know, PD, we've seen PDF files and had problems and PDFs are, you
 know, executable, post script style code.
 So, you know, these kinds of powerful technologies, you know, with the power comes security concerns.
 One wonders if Adobe used a technique like that in the PDF file format for a failback
 routine.
 Well, it couldn't have been binary executable because of course, PDFs have always been cross
 platform.
 They've been able to run their interpreted text, basically.
 Exactly.
 Whereas in the case of a Windows Metafile, this was, you know, Intel binary code where
 something just said, oh, start running here, and Lord knows, wow, it's been an amazing
 week.
 Well, Steve, I'm glad that we were able to cover this.
 I know it wasn't on our schedule.
 We were going to talk about other issues, but we'll come back next week.
 What will we talk about next week?
 Next week, we're going to talk about we're going to lay some foundation for basic Internet
 technology, you know, how, what are packets, what is routing, what is the IP address space.
 We'll talk about IPV6 and what it means, sort of lay some foundations for a number of different
 things you want to be able to talk about in the future.
 So sort of like, you know, nail down some terminology.
 Once again, barring any nasty exploits of any kind, because of course, we always cover
 those first.
 That's what this show is all about.
 And for what it's worth for people who are listening to this that have Windows 9X or
 ME, if it turns out that Microsoft is not going to fix this and there is a problem and
 it seems to me that there is, I'll be coming up with some sort of a solution for it.
 Stay tuned.
 We'll put a link in the show notes to Steve's site talking about this vulnerability and
 offering eelfax patch, although again, by now, you won't need it.
 You can run Windows Update and Microsoft Windows will automatically be patched using an official
 Microsoft fix, they plan to ship it on January 5th at 5 o'clock Eastern, 5 p.m. Eastern.
 But again, you can go to grc.com/sn/notes-o20.html, I should say 020.html if you want to know more,
 or just go to the grc.com and go to the show notes page, you'll find a link there.
 Now Heil powered for your enjoyment.
 You ran out and got a PR40, huh, Steve?
 Yeah.
 Well, you sounded so good when you switched yours.
 And I thought, okay, I've got to have one as big as Leo.
 Steve, you should have asked me.
 I'm sure Bob Heil would have sent you one as a fan.
 Ah, final mind.
 Alright.
 Well, thanks to Bob Heil and Heil's sound for my PR40 anyway.
 And of course to AOL radio and the AOL podcast channel where this show appears and they provide
 us the bandwidth to make it possible to offer you security now, absolutely free.
 Every single Thursday, Steve Gibson, we'll talk again next week.
 If not sooner.
 Righto.
 Thanks for joining us.
 Thanks Leo.
