 (upbeat music)
 - This is "Security Now" with Steve Gibson,
 Episode 20 for December 29th, 2005.
 (upbeat music)
 - Last episode of this year.
 - The last episode of 2005, and we've done 20 of them.
 - Yeah.
 - And we'll do another 52, I predict next year.
 - I have a feeling like that.
 (laughing)
 - We've been very consistent,
 and there's always lots to talk about,
 but one of the things that you started in a few episodes ago,
 I think is a really great idea,
 is every fourth episode we answer listeners' questions.
 - Well, yeah, just the nature of what we're doing,
 suggesting things to people that they're able to go try.
 Sometimes people come back more than one person
 with like, whoops, what about this, or what about that?
 So it really gives us a chance,
 and just to know what people are thinking too.
 - Well, before we do that,
 let's talk about a big hole in windows,
 'cause, and this is my original concern
 with doing every fourth episode on a schedule
 that we might miss answering questions,
 that we might miss a big security story.
 So, but we're not gonna do that,
 'cause we're gonna tell you about it.
 - Yeah, this week we've got one.
 This all exploded yesterday on December 28th.
 There's a brand newly discovered windows,
 meta file exploit,
 which is really bad.
 It's been called a zero-day exploit.
 It is able to install malware in people's computers
 just by visiting a website.
 In fact, the guys at F-Secure,
 while they were fetching a file in a DOS box,
 that it infected their machine,
 because they had Google's desktop search system going,
 and it turns out when they fetch the file,
 Google's desktop system indexed it,
 and the process of indexing the file
 caused the exploit to run.
 - Wow.
 - So, let me define a couple of terms real quickly,
 or ask you to define a couple of terms real quickly
 before we go further.
 What is a meta file?
 - A Windows meta file has been a format
 that's existed from the very beginning of Windows.
 It's sort of a scripting language,
 sort of in the feeling of a PDF,
 the way a PDF is able to define rectangles
 on squares and things.
 So, it's a different kind of image format
 than people are used to.
 We're used to GIFs and JPEGs and PNG files.
 We're also used to--
 - What's the extension for it?
 Is it, is there?
 - Well, it's WMF, except that just filtering WMF files
 doesn't solve the problem,
 because it turns out that other image formats
 are able to cause Windows to execute the same code.
 Windows actually looks at the content of the file,
 not just the file extension.
 So, you're able to masquerade WMF files
 in non-WMF image formats.
 - So, you could distribute this as an attachment
 to an email with any arbitrary extension,
 but more likely it's gonna happen on a website
 as an image or just something that's part of the page or--
 - Well, when IE displays it,
 this will affect Firefox, Opera, IE, so it's--
 - Doesn't matter, wow.
 - Yep, it's browser agnostic.
 At the moment, this is so new
 that they were only seeing websites exploiting it,
 but we're expecting a virus to appear at any moment,
 an email-borne virus, because when your viewer,
 you open the email, your viewer shows an image,
 that can install malware on your machine.
 - And this kind of underscores the fact that
 even what appears to be a pure data file
 can contain a virus or malware, as you say.
 Now, you said it's a zero-day exploit, what's that mean?
 - Well, it means that it has the ability
 to propagate very quickly and that it does not require
 any direct user interaction.
 I mean, there are many vectors
 that will get this thing into people's machines.
 Now, this happened yesterday.
 We have no response from Microsoft yet,
 although they do have a page on their site
 acknowledging the exploit.
 The good news is there's something
 that anyone who knows about this,
 anyone listening to this podcast can do immediately.
 It's possible to unregister
 Windows handling of the vulnerable DLL.
 What will happen is that like in Windows Explorer,
 the image thumbnails that Windows Explorer
 would normally show, they will stop functioning,
 but you want them to stop functioning.
 - That's part of the problem, those files, yeah.
 - Exactly, it's Windows display of a file
 which is infected with this malicious exploit
 does cause the problem.
 So on the show notes for this episode,
 which we always have posted, Leo,
 you can copy the string if you want to
 or just point people to the show notes page on my site,
 but I have an extensive dialogue explaining
 what the problem is with lots of links
 to other sources of information,
 but also with a step-by-step explanation
 for how anybody can just drop a string
 into the run field under their start menu
 to run a little utility program that Windows provides
 to unregister the handling of this exploit,
 and they will be safe then from any exploitation of this
 until Microsoft catches up with a patch.
 Now, as we know, Microsoft generally patches
 on the second Tuesday of every month.
 This is so bad, I would expect something from them
 as quickly as they can react because already we're seeing,
 I mean, the malware guys are jumping on this fast.
 - Oh, so there's already exploits?
 - Many exploits.
 - Many within 24 hours, wow.
 - Yes, yes, and I mean, sites are exploiting it.
 The exploitation code is gone like a wildfire
 across the internet.
 So listeners want to do this immediately
 and probably email their friends with, again,
 a link to our show notes page
 to get people to protect themselves.
 The word really needs to get out of house.
 - And I won't put the string on the Twitch website.
 I'll just put a link to you.
 Because you describe it, you tell how to do,
 I mean, it's much more elaborate
 than just giving people a string.
 So we'll point people to grc.com/sn/notes-020.html.
 I know that's a lot to remember,
 but this week in tech.com, we'll have it on the entry
 for this page.
 So, wow, that's scary.
 That's really scary.
 - Yeah, and also, as I always do,
 my, the top of the grc.com homepage
 will have a link to our security now page.
 And this week, I will have a special link
 directly to the show notes.
 So just going to grc.com's homepage will also take people.
 'Cause, I mean, this is a big, bad problem.
 - This strikes me as the kind of thing
 that an antivirus probably wouldn't be much help in.
 I mean, heuristics might catch this kind of thing,
 but, but likely not.
 - I would imagine you could design something
 specifically for it, so it might very well be
 that the antivirus guys will jump on this
 even more quickly than Microsoft can.
 - But you're not currently protected
 against it in all likelihood, right?
 And it happened so fast that--
 - Yes, absolutely not.
 It's funny too, because it's taking advantage
 of a deliberate feature which was built into the Metafiles.
 Metafiles, as I indicated, is sort of like a scripting,
 a scripting format on the web.
 There's something called scalable vector graphics.
 - Right.
 - SVG, and if the Metafiles are similar to that,
 in that you define rectangles and lines,
 and so Windows sort of draws them.
 In fact, what a Metafile actually is,
 is like GDI, the--
 - It's a small program, really.
 - It's a little program that's basically calling
 the Windows graphics primitives to draw rectangles
 and text and so forth.
 - And that's why it can be taken advantage of.
 It's really not a pure data file, it's a program file.
 - It is a little scripting format.
 And what's interesting is that there's a hook in there
 saying, if the Metafile fails, execute the following procedure.
 Well, that's what this thing does.
 - Oh, interesting.
 - Is it actually executing, it's taking advantage
 of the ability to execute a procedure
 in the event of a Metafile failure,
 so the malware registers itself as this Metafile procedure,
 and then fails the Metafile
 causing the procedure to execute.
 I mean, it's a perfect example of this,
 sort of a nice thing that represents
 an inherent security vulnerability
 which has finally been leveraged.
 And I've seen some reports saying
 that all versions of Windows,
 even like back in Millennium Edition and probably before,
 are vulnerable to this because it's built into the protocol.
 - It's interesting too because it's not a buffer overflow exploit.
 You don't have to trick anything.
 You're actually behaving as Microsoft intended you to.
 - Right.
 - Unfortunately, and this is the big flaw in security
 assumed that people were kind and benevolent
 and nobody would ever take advantage of this to do bad things.
 - Well, like putting scripting an email,
 which is still my biggest source of head shaking.
 - Well, and true type fonts are also scripts.
 I mean, a lot of graphics file formats
 are not really bits, they're program code.
 - And it's a very powerful technique,
 but it is prone to exploitation
 if you're not very, very careful.
 - Gotta sandbox it.
 - In terms of ARATA, before we start our Q&A,
 one person made the comment that
 I've been promoting the idea of cutting and pasting
 these really long, hairy passwords,
 using Windows clipboard as the transport.
 And he said, you know, Steve, it's the worthwhile mentioning
 that you don't want to leave the password on the clipboard.
 It's like, oh, good point,
 I'm definitely gonna mention that.
 - You know, it's funny because we leave data trails,
 little crumbs behind us all the time.
 You know, our cache, our swap files, page files.
 You know, there's a lot of data left behind.
 And even the slag space on your hard drive contains data.
 - And our own browser caches,
 I mean, browser caching is done
 so that as you move around a site,
 you're not having to always reload the same images
 that are like common among multiple pages on a website.
 But the browser cache is everything it can,
 and it really does leave a trail
 that can be taken advantage of.
 And then one last thing before we get into our questions,
 open SSH, the forthcoming version,
 it'll be 4.3 of open SSH is offering a VPN style tunnel
 in addition to the traditional port forwarding
 that we've talked about many times with SSH.
 And so it's gonna be extending the protocol
 to actually do this sort of tunneling.
 However, it'll have the same problems
 that TCP tunnels always have.
 And in fact, in an interview that Damian Miller,
 the developer of open SSH gives, he says,
 and I'm quoting him, like any VPN system
 that uses a reliable transport like TCP,
 an open SSH tunnel can alter packet delivery dynamics.
 E.G., a dropped transport packet
 will stall all tunneling traffic.
 So it probably isn't good for things like VOIP
 over a lossy network, use IPsec for that,
 but it's still used for most other things.
 So several people have written to be mentioning the fact
 that they've heard open SSH is gonna be offering a VPN tunnel.
 You know, what does that mean?
 Well, it means it's another good thing,
 but it's not as good as using UDP
 as the tunneling transport.
 So open SSH is never quite gonna give us what we want,
 whereas open VPN does.
 - All right, let's move on to the questions.
 We have quite a few for you, Steve,
 starting with this one.
 And again, these are composites,
 questions you receive over and over again,
 from a variety of different people.
 So credit to everybody who asked this question.
 I have a question about secure web pages.
 Some bank and credit card websites ask for a username
 and password from what appears to be an unsecured homepage.
 So Washington Mutual does it, MBMA, and NA does it.
 When using such sites, I normally click the log on button
 without entering any info.
 So I get forwarded then to a secure page
 informing me of my error and allowing me to try again.
 I have this question too.
 He says, "Am I being too paranoid
 "or is this method of logging in actually secure?"
 - That's a great question.
 And as you said, a bunch of people have asked,
 most secure sites give people sort of a warm and fuzzy feeling
 about entering data into a secure form
 by moving them onto a secure page
 before they ask them to fill anything in.
 You know, I wrote my own e-commerce system at GRC.
 And I do exactly that.
 I put people onto a secure page
 before I asked them to provide any information.
 The advantage is that you're able to right click
 on the page, bring up the properties,
 check the actual security certificate that the page has
 to make sure that you're on the page that you think you are
 and that you're not victim to some sort of redirection scam
 or phishing exploitation as has happened in the past.
 - But now I'm on my Bank of America site.
 I'm at the login page.
 It isn't a secure page.
 And I just checked the, there's no certificate for it.
 It says website and then it verified.
 So that is a good question.
 Am I safe to enter my data here?
 - Yeah, it's a great question.
 The answer is probably, but this is the problem.
 There's no real way to guarantee it.
 Now, if you were to look at the code,
 if you were to view the source of the page,
 the actual HTML, chances are the link that you would see,
 that is the URL associated with the submit button,
 it would be https colon slash slash
 and then whatever page is gonna be accepting the data.
 So the point is that it's not the security of the page,
 you're filling the form data in on that matters.
 It's the security of the page you go to that carries
 and that accepts that data.
 So it's possible and likely that, for example,
 Bank of America or Washington Mutual
 or whomever has set up this site,
 it's almost certainly the case that you're going
 to a secure page and that's what's receiving
 your confidential data.
 But, I mean, the reason this is a great question
 is that unless you somehow verify that,
 you don't know for sure.
 And so I really think it's a fault
 of the website designer, that they don't move you
 onto a secure page where the form is being filled out,
 even though technically it's not that page,
 it's the page that you're gonna submit the data to,
 which is the next page you go to,
 which needs to be secure.
 And similarly, if they put you on a secure page,
 then it's possible that they could use an unsecure button
 to accept the data.
 I mean, it's really--
 - Oh, I see, because it's really the page you're going to,
 not the page you're on that matters.
 - Exactly, the idea is that this is all sort of a collage
 which evolved after HTML and web pages existed.
 You know, the original concept of the web
 was just static delivery of pages
 that would basically people reading pages.
 There was no original concept of data
 going the other direction, that a web user
 would be submitting data back to the server.
 So that was grafted on later as an extension
 to the original concept, and it's got these problems.
 It's the link you go to that needs to be secured,
 because that's where your data is moving.
 It's not the page you're on.
 So it's a really great question.
 There isn't, without looking at the code of the page
 that you're submitting, there isn't a way to tell
 whether you're about to be secure
 or you're about to be non-secure.
 - In fact, I just have been,
 while you've been talking browsing the Bank of America page
 and it is, the post does go to an HTTPS secure site.
 So in a way, this is guaranteed secure,
 'cause I'm looking at it.
 On the other hand, if I were on a secure site
 and I didn't look at the source,
 I might be going to an insecure site to do the submit.
 - That's good to know.
 It's actually kind of parallel to a question I've asked you,
 which is, I have secure web-based email,
 but the login doesn't seem to be secure
 and you've reassured me now that it's still secure.
 - Right, oftentimes, if you float your mouse over the button,
 sometimes your browser will show you the link
 down in the status bar at the bottom of your browser.
 - Your button might tell you.
 - The button might, normally it's more the case
 with normal links instead of post links
 where the data is not a get request, it's a post request,
 which is what most forms now use,
 'cause that's a much more secure way of submitting data,
 because otherwise, third party advertisers, things,
 we've talked before about URL information leakage,
 which is also a problem.
 - Yeah, and Bank of America, which is,
 I have mixed feelings about this,
 they do put a padlock next to this.
 I'm hovering over the submit button,
 it doesn't show me any security,
 but they put a graphic of a padlock in this box,
 which is, I'm a little mixed feelings,
 'cause that is deceptive in a way,
 because it isn't the same as the padlock you see
 in your browser, anybody can put a padlock graphic,
 but when you click it, it does explain
 exactly what you've just said,
 and it says to provide the fastest access,
 we don't make the page secure,
 but once you do press submit, it is secure.
 - That's really interesting,
 'cause I mean, it no longer is the case
 that this represents any sort of overhead,
 I mean, lots of sites do it, I do it.
 - It's not that, it's not slow, is it?
 - It's dumb, I mean, there's some hand shaking,
 but it's not, I mean, come on.
 - So the idea that they've gone to all the trouble
 of putting up an explanation,
 rather than just securing that page,
 that's just clacky.
 - Question two, and actually it's a really interesting question,
 the Hamachi server, and we all know how much you love Hamachi,
 and I do too, and how you recommended it,
 was down a couple of days ago.
 It's back online now, that's kind of scary.
 You wanna talk about that?
 I mean, when you use a Machia,
 you rely it on their server.
 - Yes, totally, and so the guy wonders
 if it's useful for, I mean, he wants to make a point
 that we're relying on Hamachi
 to basically build our little network for us,
 and we're completely dependent upon it.
 Now, it's certainly the case with a VOIP system.
 You and I are using Google talk,
 we relied on Google talk being up
 in order to initiate our connection,
 but it's not the case that this system would work
 without Hamachi being up.
 Now, one of the things that Alex mentioned
 in his, as he's moved his versions forward,
 is that the clients now do not depend upon
 Hamachi's server to be up to maintain
 an existing set of tunnels,
 but it does have to be there
 in order to establish a new network,
 and in fact, he's been doing some versioning on his server
 in the last couple of days,
 and apparently there was an actual outage also,
 and so people need to recognize that, yeah,
 it's really cool that this thing is free,
 but there is a dependence on the server being up,
 and that's, of course, the same with hotspot VPN,
 or IP or any of the stuff that we've talked about,
 it will not be true once users are using
 their own open VPN scenario,
 which is where we're headed, of course,
 but nothing beats Hamachi for ease of use.
 It comes with this downside.
 - I set up my home network, someone writes,
 with WPA, as you recommended,
 and a pre-shared key using Steve's password generator.
 WPA worked fine on all my wireless G nicks,
 those network cards that support 802.11G,
 but not with the old 802.11B card in my laptop.
 Question, WPA doesn't work with a wireless B network card,
 unless the new driver for that nicks supports it, correct?
 - Almost, certainly having, if you can update your drivers,
 there is a chance that B will work.
 There's nothing about the--
 - B doesn't preclude it.
 - Exactly, there's nothing about the B ness
 versus the genus of the Wi-Fi, that does or doesn't mean WPA.
 So, if you can get later model drivers for the card,
 and they support WPA, you're in great shape.
 If not, McAfee does offer a free WPA client,
 which I've actually personally seen it work
 on a laptop whose Wi-Fi, whose built-in Wi-Fi driver
 did not support WPA.
 I have a link to it on our show notes page.
 It's a long link, so it's not something I can even say
 over the air, but they're trying to sell you on that page.
 This link goes to much fancier sort of radius style,
 dynamic real time authentication, which you don't need.
 So, read the page carefully.
 There's a place when you're installing it,
 where you say disable the dynamic authentication.
 You definitely want to do that.
 Then you're just using the pre-shared key,
 which is what I'm promoting as really all the security you need.
 So, it may be that you can use this free client
 to upgrade your web only system to run WPA.
 And I know that it has worked for people.
 - So, it's not necessarily a firmware update to the card
 you have to make.
 It's merely a driver, or maybe even not even a driver,
 a client, that you need.
 - Yeah, they call it a Windows client software.
 - It's not even a driver.
 It's just instead of the,
 well, see, I mean, the problem is on some versions
 of Windows, there is no WPA support.
 So, that would fix that.
 - Exactly.
 - Yeah, but the driver would also have to support it or not.
 - No, it does not need to support it.
 - Okay, it's just merely that you need the client.
 - Right. - Got it.
 What's the security of Windows Remote Desktop?
 Oh, we've talked about this before,
 which is so easy to use, One Man writes,
 in which you and Leo often talk about.
 One thing I've always done is connected via RDP
 to my home PC from the office.
 I work as a network administrator.
 So, no worry about the IT department catching on,
 but your show may be wondering about
 the security of Remote Desktop.
 Is it at all encrypted?
 Could it be sniffed?
 Would it be better to conduct the RDP session
 on a port other than its default, 3389?
 Perhaps that's all, should be a show on its own.
 And just to share what I do in terms of security,
 it's pretty basic.
 I have my router configured to allow traffic in on that port,
 which could be viewed as somewhat of a security threat.
 However, I also do some filtering with my zone alarm firewall
 to only allow my office IP address through.
 So, even though the ports open,
 only one IP address is allowed.
 It seems to work when I connect from a friend's PC
 and log in, even as administrator,
 I'm almost instantly dropped by my firewall
 before I can even attempt to shut down the firewall
 or anything.
 - Well, it's a long question.
 It's a really good one.
 - Okay.
 - So, we have a guy who's running remote desktop at home.
 He's opened a port through his router.
 So, and he's using 3389, which is the default.
 And then he's using the firewall on his machine.
 He's basically set up a packet filter
 so that only that port will be accepted
 coming from his office IP.
 Well, okay, a couple things.
 First of all, always changing remote desktops,
 default port is a super idea.
 And the good news is there are pages on the web
 that provide you with instructions for how to do that.
 So, the default port 3389 can be changed.
 And that's the first thing I would do.
 - Now, that's security by obscurity.
 It's not really security.
 And I suppose there are sniffers
 that would just try the protocol.
 Of course, it'd take you a lot longer,
 but across all a bunch of ports, right?
 - Right.
 I mean, certainly you don't want to rely on security
 by obscurity but it's better than not having any security.
 - Or being wide open and saying,
 "Here I am, come get me a 3389."
 - Yeah, so for example, if as just happened yesterday,
 we were talking about this Windows Metafile exploit,
 if a horrible new exploit was found
 in the Windows remote desktop,
 then what would immediately happen is that worms
 would start scanning for port 3389,
 trying to get in on that port.
 They would just all assume the default.
 So being on 3389, zero, for example,
 or anything else is really the first thing you want to do.
 Now secondly, doing what this guy has done,
 that is establishing a port filter
 so that he's only accepting incoming connections
 from his office IP, that is really good security.
 It's, for example, it's what I do
 in order to have Telnet available on my remote equipment
 at level three, unfortunately the equipment I'm using
 doesn't let me use a super strong password.
 So what I've done is I am filtering the traffic
 so that only my home network range
 is even able to see those ports open where they are.
 I mean, nobody else is able to see them
 and you can't spoof those IPs
 because they're TCP connections,
 which are inherently immune to any kind of spoofing.
 - Oh, I didn't know that.
 So even raw sockets don't let you spoof TCP.
 - Well, raw sockets would allow you to make up
 a big source IP, but the TCP connection handshake,
 it sends a packet in each direction.
 - Oh yeah, you couldn't get back, could it?
 - Exactly.
 - There's no return address, I get it.
 - Exactly.
 - So what this guy has done is absolutely secure.
 The only threat would be somebody on his local ethernet
 would be able to use ARP poisoning,
 but you know, that would have to be somebody
 in his own home network, which is--
 - Deposes him on the IP address.
 - Exactly.
 And there you'd have a man in the middle of vulnerability,
 but you are completely invulnerable out on the internet.
 So what he's done is really good
 and I will just say that otherwise, RDP is not secure.
 This is one of those things Microsoft keeps trying to do
 and they're up to version four now
 and they still haven't got it.
 The, that we talked about briefly there,
 there's a tool called cane enable
 and the current version of cane enable,
 which is freely downloadable,
 has complete RDP, man in the middle, spoofing and decoding.
 So that if it knew that that's what was going on
 and if it was able to insert itself
 with a man in the middle attack, it could,
 and it does give you a complete transcript
 of everything the user does and types
 over his remote desktop connection.
 So you cannot rely on RDP security all by itself.
 You'd have to tunnel it through VPN
 as we've talked about, you know,
 running remote desktop over Hamachi or IPig
 or in this case, this user is just using it
 with port filtering so that only accepts a connection
 from his office IP range and that's really good security.
 - SSH, up in SSH uses RSA fingerprinting
 in a similar way, saying, you know,
 if this is the fingerprint for that machine
 that's contacting me and if it's a known machine,
 allow it otherwise don't.
 - Well, what you're talking about
 is extremely good authentication and that's what you need
 in order to avoid man in the middle attacks,
 strong endpoint authentication,
 which we'll be talking about very soon in 2006.
 - Even better than the IP identification,
 you can't, I mean, you can't fake that.
 It's a public gets it, you know, RSA key.
 Plato in Poughkeepsie writes, biometrics.
 What do you guys think of all the cool new fingerprint scanners?
 I'm setting you up on that one.
 - That's okay.
 There's lots of people who are asking about biometrics.
 - Yeah.
 - I'm scared of them.
 - Well, you saw them, maybe you didn't see the story.
 That 83% of all fingerprint scanners
 can be fooled by a Plato thumb.
 - Oh, I see what you mean.
 - You didn't see this?
 - You didn't see this.
 - I thought you said Plato.
 - Plato.
 - Not Plato.
 Yeah, now, I mean, that's a perfect example.
 I see these things that are like these little scanners
 on the end of a USB cord and I mean,
 I just know that they're gonna be a problem.
 - It's kind of hard.
 I mean, you have to get an imprint
 of the actual guys thumbprint and then use the Plato
 to make a reverse.
 - Well, actually, there are,
 unless you wipe one of those scanners off deliberately
 after you've removed your fingerprint.
 - Yes, it turns out, of course.
 You can fill a bag of water and push it against the plate again
 and it thinks you're back.
 - Oh, that's not good.
 - Now, the good news is on my little Toshiba libretto
 and also on the IBM ThinkPad,
 there's a different kind of scanner.
 It's a fingerprint scanner,
 but you have to draw your finger across it.
 It's a capacitive scanner instead of a static image scanner.
 And so the beauty of that is that at no point
 is your entire fingerprint available on a plate.
 Instead, you're scanning it across
 like a little single line scanner
 and so it's a dynamic print which it acquires over time.
 That's much more secure.
 But overall, the whole idea
 that any sort of single static biometric
 is being used for full authentication,
 I think that's always a bad idea.
 For example, when I go to access my equipment at level three,
 I have two things I have to present.
 I have a badge which I wave by their badge scanner.
 Then I stick my hand in a biometric reader
 which reads the various parameters from my palm.
 So the idea is that that's called two factor authentication
 and it is far better than single factor authentication.
 So what that prevents is it would prevent somebody
 from getting my badge without my knowledge
 and going behind my back to the facility and getting in.
 'Cause the chances are that they could have my badge
 and have an identical hand to mine
 is really much smaller than them
 just being able to get the badge by itself.
 So in real terms, I would say
 if you had a system that required a password
 and a thumb print or a fingerprint,
 that makes lots of sense.
 'Cause then it prevents somebody from getting your password
 or discovering it independently
 and being able to log on as you.
 'Cause again, the chance that they're gonna have a fingerprint
 which matches yours or have a spare ball of Play-Doh
 in their pocket is very remote.
 - But don't assume that just the plain old,
 as convenient as it is
 that the plain old thumb print scanners are really secure.
 They're not really.
 - You know, the rule of thumb is
 anytime something seems really convenient,
 you got a problem.
 - Secure is not equal convenient.
 - Exactly.
 - Regarding the information you gave in episode 19
 using the security connection that Google's Gmail offers
 that's HTTPS colon slash slash male.google.com for Gmail.
 If one wanted to use this as their only email account
 when using an open Wi-Fi hotspot,
 would this provide enough security?
 So I don't need VPN for my email.
 And I have, on fast mail, which I love,
 my IMAP email provider also has a secure log.
 In fact, they're nice.
 They have a public terminal and a secure log in
 so it saves no information and it's HTTPS.
 Is that safe over Wi-Fi?
 - Absolutely.
 Now, I mean, that's the short one word answer.
 That's gonna be using SSL
 and we're gonna be talking again early in 2006
 about SSL and certificates and authentication
 and all of this stuff.
 You would wanna make sure that the connection
 and the certificate had not been spoofed
 by right clicking on the secure page
 and looking at their certificate.
 I really, I'm gonna start talking about this a lot
 because it's the way phishing scams work
 and it's the way SSL man on the middle attacks work
 is by presenting people with fake credentials
 because that breaks the authentication
 which is inherently the way these protocols are secure.
 So you really wanna make sure
 that you're actually talking to the server you think you are.
 If however you are, and you're, for example,
 using secure Google mail or whatever,
 then all of your email work would then be secure
 in an otherwise insecure area,
 hotspotter on a hotel or so forth.
 - Very good to know.
 How secure are Nat routers, Steve?
 Do stateful routers offer more security?
 I guess he's talking about stateful packet inspection.
 - SPI, right. - SPI.
 Do firewall routers or routers build as firewall
 offer more security than just playing old Nat routers?
 - It's a really good question.
 We've talked about Nat routers extensively
 as providing inherent security
 because they don't allow unsolicited traffic
 to come into your network.
 My sense is that's really enough.
 Now, if manufacturers are gonna offer more features,
 for example, stateful packet inspection
 where they're actually tracking the state
 of the protocol as it goes back and forth,
 I mean, it provides theoretically better protection.
 And I like the idea that maybe that offers
 much more configuration flexibility.
 For example, the guy, for example,
 who was configuring zone alarm only to allow
 incoming traffic on a certain port,
 a firewall router will probably have that built in.
 So you wouldn't have to use zone alarm on your computer,
 but instead you could say allow incoming traffic
 on this port only from this IP range.
 So more features of a security nature
 are probably a good thing,
 but I wouldn't ever suggest that someone go out
 and buy another router just to get those more features.
 - Well, and also you could legitimately label any router,
 Nat router, a firewall.
 So just 'cause it says firewall
 doesn't even mean you get more features.
 - And any Nat router is doing
 - They're doing it.
 - full packet inspection, that's what it means
 to have a packet come in and inspect it
 and check the state of the connection table
 to figure out which machine to send it to.
 - Does any form of SPI do more than that
 look at the actual contents of the packet
 or try to assess what's going on, anything like that?
 - They say they do, and it's theoretically possible,
 but how would we ever know?
 (laughing)
 No, I mean, really, it's just, don't buy one.
 I mean, if you don't own a router yet,
 buy the most secure, fancy, schmancy,
 stateful packet, inspecting, firefall router
 that you can afford.
 - And you still may not begin anything better
 than your Linksys WRT54G, right?
 - Well, certainly if it's got features
 that are exposed on the user interface of the router,
 if it's got extra fancy firewall features,
 timed availability, so instant messaging
 is only available during these hours,
 those kinds of things are cool.
 - And useful, yeah.
 - But really, any Nat router is providing you
 with great security, beyond that, well, it doesn't hurt.
 - There's a company, which shall remain nameless mostly,
 'cause I can't just, can't remember the name,
 but it sells what is essentially a router
 with an on/off switch, and for twice the price,
 and claims it to be a high security firewall router.
 - That's gotta be the dumb idea to say.
 (laughing)
 - Well, you can turn off the internet, I mean, that is secure.
 - Or you can just unplug your computer.
 - Yeah, well, that's a good point, yeah.
 Just shut down, that'd have the same effect, wouldn't it?
 - If I, another correspondence, and by the way,
 if I can ask people when they fill out those forms,
 if you wanna get a question on the show,
 it'd be great if you put your name and city
 just so we can give you credit.
 - Yeah, that'd be cool.
 - Yeah, just, you know, say, make up a name if you wanna.
 - You know, well, before we leave the last topic,
 I'll mention that one of the cool things
 that Windows 2000 and XP do is if you right-click
 on network neighborhood and then do properties,
 it'll show you your various adapters,
 you're able to right-click and disable an adapter,
 and in fact, I use it on my laptop all the time
 'cause I've got adapters coming out of my ears,
 I've got multiple Wi-Fi, I've got VPN,
 I've got several different interfaces,
 and I deliberately keep them all disabled,
 and then I selectively enable the one that I wanna use.
 So that's another nice way of sort of taking your machine
 off of your LAN if you're not using it.
 I mean, it's certainly not super secure,
 but it's a little nicer than literally
 unplugging your computer from your router.
 - And it would protect you against incoming traffic,
 although if you had a bad boy on your system,
 - Right.
 - They could probably turn it back on.
 - No doubt.
 - If they were smart, you know,
 if they were checking for that, I guess.
 - Yep.
 - I'll make up a name.
 Doleful in Duluth writes,
 if I use my home network from somewhere else
 to access the internet,
 what would the resulting speed be?
 - That's really a good question,
 and it brings up a good point.
 We will be promoting the idea of people running
 some sort of an open VPN server on their whole network.
 Either their own little plastic link sis router
 that they've reflashed with open VPN,
 or running open VPN server on a Windows machine,
 which is then used not only to give them access
 inside their network,
 but as their connection to the internet.
 But we know that many connections to the internet
 are not the same speed upstream as they are downstream.
 And instead of being symmetric speed,
 they are asymmetric connections.
 And what's normally the case is that the traffic downstream
 toward them is high speed, for example, for downloading,
 but their outbound traffic is low speed,
 and this allows their providers
 to basically sort of change the bandwidth allocation
 to optimize it because upstream traffic
 actually takes more channel bandwidth
 if you're gonna have high speed upstream traffic.
 But when you're out roaming around
 and you're connecting to your server at home,
 then your traffic has to come down your connection
 to your home, and then if you're going out on the internet,
 back out your connection to go on the internet.
 Basically what this means is that your effective speed
 is the lower of your upstream and downstream speed.
 It's not the greater.
 So surfing the internet using your home connection
 as your entry point to the internet would be slower
 than just using it like from your home
 and not needing to have traffic coming downstream as well.
 - That's a very good point.
 - Yeah.
 - Can the Sony rootkit or any rootkit be removed
 by reformatting the hard drive
 and doing a clean install of the operating system?
 Isn't that one way to get rid of it?
 - Yes, absolutely.
 - Nothing's gonna survive a format and install.
 - Nothing, now it's a little trickier
 if you had a multi-boot environment
 where you had multiple operating systems on the drive.
 You'd wanna make sure that you got it off of the drive.
 There are viruses which are able to install themselves
 in the partition table and in the first track
 of the hard drive that are able to install
 or able to survive reformats and reinstalls
 of the operating system, but that's not a rootkit.
 A rootkit is a compromise of the OS.
 So if you wipe it clean and reinstall it,
 that rootkit is gone.
 - Good.
 Sony, by the way, yes are on Friday recently announced
 that they were gonna settle a class action lawsuit
 against them over the rootkit
 and they're going to offer people money
 for the CDs that they bought
 and they're going to offer trade-ins
 and they're gonna stop doing it
 and offer an uninstaller.
 So maybe they've seen the light.
 - Oh, if this has to show them
 the life no diversity.
 - Nothing will.
 - For the VPN, I would love to set one up on my home server.
 Unfortunately, my DSL provider gives me
 a private IP address, not a public IP address.
 Is there any way short of getting a public IP address
 to connect to my home network from the outside world?
 - Wow, that's another great question.
 - I haven't heard of this.
 So what is going on here?
 - And it is becoming more and more common.
 He's actually got a provider.
 His ISP is giving him like a 10-dot address
 or a 192.168.
 So he doesn't actually get from his ISP
 a publicly routable IP
 like most cable modem users have, for example,
 you know, is 66 or 64 or something.
 - That seems like a good idea from a security point of view.
 - Well, it is because he's never having
 any unsolicited stuff come in.
 Basically what it means is his provider
 is running a big NAT router on his behalf.
 The bad news is it totally precludes him
 from running any servers.
 Which is probably another reason the ISP does it.
 - Well, exactly.
 So the only solution for him is Hamachi.
 - Hamachi gets around that.
 - Yes, if Hamachi will work for him
 and he'll have to give it a try,
 but if Hamachi will work,
 it will, in the same way that Hamachi is able to go outbound
 through a user's own local NAT router,
 it ought to be able to go outbound
 through his ISP's NAT router.
 - It doesn't have traversal with the ISP's router.
 - Exactly.
 - Interesting.
 So it tunnels through basically the router
 and you've established a connection.
 - Yeah, so I would imagine that if Hamachi works for him,
 it's the only thing I can think of that would work for him.
 - Another reason to love Hamachi.
 This is kind of related to the slowdown
 with the question before.
 Isn't using a VPN inherently slower
 than just an unprotected connection?
 I guess the encryption would slow it down, wouldn't it?
 - The encryption can.
 And in fact, in the case, for example, of Hamachi,
 Alex will be offering a non-encrypted variant
 for Hamachi specifically for gaming guys
 who are extremely concerned about the latency
 through the network.
 The fact is on modern computers,
 encryption is a very low overhead overall.
 - They're fast.
 - They really are.
 I mean, encryption, I mean, you could even use RC4,
 which is virtually, I mean, it's so fast
 and still very good encryption
 that it's just representing no overhead.
 So, well, for example, I'm gonna be using RC4
 in my own experimenting with the VIP stuff
 because I don't want encryption to slow us down
 and there's just no need for anything more.
 However, VPNs are slow not because of encryption,
 but for two reasons and I wanna hammer this home.
 In fact, people are complaining about IPIG
 and slowdowns with IPIG.
 And in fact, IPIG's stalling sometimes.
 Stalling is what happens when you are tunneling TCP
 through a TCP tunnel.
 If you suffer packet loss,
 then the external tunneling protocol, TCP,
 will start asking for packets to be retransmitted.
 But the internal TCP protocol
 will also start asking for packets to be retransmitted,
 which ends up creating a complete bog down
 of the VPN protocol.
 So, this is really a fault not of the VPNness,
 but of the particular technology used to implement the VPN.
 So, unfortunately, IPIG, cool and free as it is,
 it can have problems which you will see
 if you're on a connection which is too slow
 or is suffering from packet loss, you could have problems.
 The traditional VPN protocols,
 IPsec and L2TP and PPTP that we've talked about before,
 they avoid using TCP just for this reason.
 They have their own tunneling protocols
 and what is becoming my favorite solution, OpenVPN,
 it's able to use UDP in order to avoid that problem.
 So, it's really, I mean, encryption is some overhead,
 but it really should no longer be a real problem.
 It's just the implementation of the VPN
 that can cause problems.
 - Won't disabling another viewer rights secure in Encino.
 Won't disabling my access points SSID,
 keep my network secure.
 Now, I thought we'd flatten this one.
 This is called, this is turning off the broadcast ID.
 - Yeah, we have flattened it and it brings up a good point.
 We're gonna be needing to sort of move forward
 with the security topics
 and not continually address things that we have in the past.
 So, I'm gonna be presuming that we're building
 on a foundation of knowledge as we move forward
 and be referring to things that we've talked about.
 So, I wanna answer the user's question,
 but I wanna say that, you know,
 we've covered this and it's really gonna be important
 for people to spend some time to catch up
 on our prior podcast so that they're moving along
 with everyone and we're not penalizing the people
 that are, you know, keeping themselves current.
 - Yeah, I mean, we have the same problem
 on the radio show and the TV show
 and there are certain things that just come up again
 and again and are worth, I guess, addressing.
 But we have covered this one pretty thoroughly.
 Just the short answer is,
 it prevents blanking or disabling the broadcast SSID
 from a node, does not provide you with security,
 but it does provide you with a prevention
 of people using your bandwidth by mistake.
 It's much like MAC address filtering.
 If you tune your access point only to accept data
 from known adapters or known MAC addresses,
 then it will prevent your neighbors
 from inadvertently using your node and your access point
 but it will not prevent someone who really wants
 to use your connection from doing so.
 So both MAC address filtering and SSID hiding,
 they will prevent inadvertent access
 but they should not be confused with real security.
 - And finally, could you explain port knocking?
 That's with a KN, con knocking and how I can use it.
 From what I've heard, it seems like a great solution
 for allowing controlled access to a system or network.
 What is port knocking?
 - It's very cool.
 Unfortunately, it's still very unavailable.
 The idea is, say that you have a router
 that's got no exposed open ports,
 yet you want to connect into a router from outside.
 For example, say we were running OpenVPN server
 and a user wanted to connect into his OpenVPN server,
 but he didn't want to leave his router's port open
 and forwarding traffic in all the time.
 Port knocking is just so cool.
 You send a sequence of packets at your router
 on closed ports and closed ports don't do anything
 but the router knows they hit there and it drops them.
 But the idea would be you configure your own secret sequence
 of packets to send.
 - You mean knock, knock, knock, knock, knock.
 - Exactly, exactly.
 And so you configure your own sequence to send,
 then when the router sees it, then it knows it's you
 because you've given it the secret knock
 and then it opens the port and allows your data through.
 - I like that, it's kind of like a callback a little bit.
 - Yeah, well it's very cool.
 As far as I know, no commercial routers offer it yet.
 It's becoming available in Linux systems
 and in other open source systems.
 I hope it becomes a widespread solution.
 It means you need something fancy over on your computer
 to send out the special knocking sequence,
 but that's not a big deal.
 And it's a very cool solution
 because it allows you to be absolutely stealth
 until it knows it's you.
 Oh, and the source IP of the knocking packets,
 if the router was really clever,
 it wouldn't open the port to everyone.
 It would only then allow unsolicited packets
 from your IP from which the knocking packets came.
 - Oh, very important, yeah.
 - Oh, it's very, it's a very, very cool technology.
 And as it happens, we'll be letting people know.
 - Oh, we're on, we're gonna do some stuff
 on port knocking, huh?
 - Oh, sure, I mean, as it becomes available.
 - I hadn't really heard about it, I like it.
 Well, I thank you for making yourself so available.
 Steve Gibson, it's always a pleasure.
 Security now appears every Thursday afternoon.
 Thanks to the good graces, I have to say,
 of your company, SpinRight and GRC.com.
 SpinRight is the world's best file recovery
 and disk maintenance utility, still available
 and always getting better.
 - Well, yeah, in fact, it's at version six, of course.
 And you're right, it's SpinRight's ongoing sales
 and success that basically pays for my bandwidth,
 pays for my time and lets me do this.
 - Yeah, 'cause this has pretty much become
 a full-time job for you here, I know.
 I know, at least with it was with OpenVPN.
 And of course, thanks to our friends at AOL Radio
 who broadcast this show on their podcast channel
 and offer us the bandwidth, so the downloads are free to you.
 That's at AOLMusic.com.
 What are we gonna talk about next week, Steve?
 - Next week, we're gonna sort of start off the new year
 with talking about how the internet works.
 It'll be a review for people who already think
 they know it all, but it'll answer a question I had
 in the very beginning and that I know lots of people have.
 What actually are packets?
 What actually are ports?
 And how does all that work?
 We're gonna sort of start laying a foundation
 for security understanding by talking about some stuff
 that we've referred to but have never really
 taken the time to define.
 - There's a couple of people I saw complaining that,
 well, sometimes it's really advanced show
 and sometimes it's a really basic show,
 but I like the mix because I learned something
 on all of the episodes.
 And eventually, you put it all together,
 you've got a pretty good education
 in how this stuff works and how security works.
 - Yeah, in fact, some people have written
 that the security now podcast is becoming an assignment.
 Their teachers are telling them to listen to the podcast.
 - I like that.
 - Very cool.
 - You're the teacher, we always wish
 we'd had.
 Thank you, Steve Gibson.
 Happy new year, all the best in 2006.
 Look forward to another great year of security now.
 Here it comes.
 Take care.
 (upbeat music)
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
