 (upbeat music)
 - This is "Security Now" with Steve Gibson, episode 24,
 with Thursday, January 26th, 2006.
 Listener questions and answers.
 (upbeat music)
 - Hey Leo, glad to be with you again.
 We're in the studio at Call for Help.
 - Yeah, physically together,
 rather than by Skype this time, Steve,
 you just cracked me up.
 He brought essentially an entire radio production studio
 with him in his suitcase.
 - It was heavy, I'm not doing this again.
 - Two PR-40 months.
 - He's dragging through the airport.
 - Two arms, you have a pop filter for your PR-40.
 I mean, we're just really, we're rockin' here.
 So as we do every fourth episode,
 we're gonna answer your questions
 and kind of follow up on things that Steve raised
 in previous episodes.
 Should we just get right into it?
 - Yeah, let's go.
 - A couple of questions right off the bat about Hamachi,
 which is the VPN client that you use and recommended.
 Tony from Northeastern PA said,
 "On many forums, there's been a great deal of disagreement
 "about Hamachi and the need for hardware
 "and software firewalls.
 "Hamachi rocks, as you've said.
 "But what if any dangers does its use open us up to?"
 And Greg from Good Your Arizona kind of follows on in that.
 He says, "If I'm using Hamachi in my laptop
 "through a friend's open wireless network
 "to connect to my machine at home, how secure am I?"
 - Yeah, those are great questions.
 Hamachi, I'm just so stoked that we discovered this thing
 'cause people are using it like crazy.
 I mean, they really love what it does
 'cause it allows them to create really secure point-to-point
 links between machines.
 However, the bit of confusion,
 and we talked about this when we first did our show
 about Hamachi, is that it's a very powerful connection.
 You're literally giving somebody else an IP address
 on your machine and you're connecting.
 So it makes sense for a personal use
 to like hook your own machines together.
 But I was wondering, like for example, gamers.
 A lot of gamers are using this in order to create
 their own little five dot LAN systems.
 But it does mean that other people are connecting
 to your machine, just like they were in the same room,
 plugged into a hub.
 - So you're on a LAN together.
 When you say five dot, that's the address range
 that it uses, five dot, something, that's something.
 - Exactly, but the other thing that's important
 is that even while you're using Hamachi,
 your machine still has its original IP.
 So for example, in Greg's case,
 where he's at a friend's house using his laptop
 and using Hamachi to connect to his machine at home,
 he's still on his friend's wireless LAN.
 So he's got his wireless IP,
 which is still keeping him exposed from that standpoint.
 - So essentially what's happening is he's putting
 his home machine on the local LAN,
 as visible as any other machine, right?
 - Only to, if he had some Trojan software on his laptop,
 that would be a problem.
 - That would have to be on the connecting machine,
 not anywhere else in the LAN.
 - The way to think of it is that when you're using Hamachi,
 your system has its original IP and the Hamachi IP,
 not the Hamachi IP instead of the original IP.
 So the first caller's question about firewalls,
 the short answer is yes, you still need a firewall.
 - But not to protect your Hamachi connection.
 - Exactly, well not to protect the data flowing
 over the Hamachi connection, but for example,
 say that you were gonna be using Hamachi for gaming,
 and you wanted to tie 10 machines together.
 Well, it would make sense to use your firewall
 to only allow gaming traffic over the Hamachi IP.
 So you really do want to use a software firewall
 to protect access through Hamachi
 if you don't trust somebody on the other side.
 That is, if you don't trust another,
 the Hamachi computers you're connecting to,
 use you still want to keep your guard up.
 And so because Hamachi looks like a standard internet interface
 and most firewalls will allow you to permit traffic
 by interface, that is by connection,
 you could say only allow the gaming traffic
 over my Hamachi 5.xx IP.
 And you certainly still want to have a firewall
 to protect your non-Hamachi IP.
 - So let's say you're using a router as a firewall
 and the router port forwarding, what port does Hamachi use?
 - Well, see that's actually a really perfect example
 because by using Hamachi, you are basically penetrating
 your router's inherent security
 when you create a Hamachi tunnel--
 - 'Cause it's an outgoing thing you don't have to--
 - Well, and it allows incoming traffic.
 - Once you've established the tunnel.
 - Once you've established that tunnel.
 So the tunnel is made outbound through your router,
 but once you've got the Hamachi tunnel,
 inbound traffic is allowed and is not--
 - Of any kind.
 - Is exactly, of any kind and is not controlled.
 Basically it is--
 - So the router and firewall don't even see it.
 - Exactly, well now your router cannot see it.
 Your software firewall will see it.
 And so-- - You have to tell
 the firewall anything particular like watch 5.xx?
 - Yes, in fact normally if you look at a software firewall,
 if you've got one that is about inbound blocking,
 for example, you may have to deliberately permit
 Hamachi to access out to the rest of the internet.
 So-- - It'll give you that pop-up
 most of the time it says-- - Exactly.
 - Hamachi's trying to access the internet.
 Do you want to be able to-- - Well, and for example,
 say that you were like a high volume Windows user,
 like as most are, using Windows XP service pack two,
 so you've got the Windows firewall on.
 You won't initially be able to get any incoming traffic.
 Now, the non-secure solution is to simply
 remove Hamachi from the firewall completely.
 That's okay, as long as you trust the computers
 that are on the Hamachi network.
 But what you probably really want to do
 is to specifically allow only the traffic,
 like the gaming traffic or whatever--
 - Open the port that that game uses.
 - Exactly, forward that port through
 that only the game is going to need.
 Otherwise, anyone who you're connecting to
 in their Hamachi network has complete access
 to your machine.
 - So you'll give your software firewall permission
 for an outbound connection to Hamachi from your system.
 And then you may say, but don't allow any incoming traffic,
 except traffic over the port, the specific port
 that that game or whatever thing you want to use.
 - Right, I mean, it is, these are great questions
 because this is a confusing topic.
 - Is it documented on the Hamachi site?
 - If someone will go through the forums,
 there's not a lot of documentation,
 like static documentation on the pages,
 but there's been a lot of dialogue
 in the Hamachi forums, and that's a great place
 to learn about all these Hamachi specifics.
 - Norbert Davis asks, is it Norbert in Davis
 or Norbert Davis's name?
 - Like Norbert Davis's name.
 - Okay, I've loved the Zonalarm software firewall
 because I can see what programs are asking
 to talk back to the mothership.
 That's that outbound traffic protection we're talking about.
 Really the only real reason to run a software firewall.
 However, Zonalarm has become bloated in its code,
 consumes a lot of resources and does things I don't need.
 Can you recommend a good freeware
 or shareware software firewall?
 I run Windows XP and need something dependable, but lightweight.
 - You know, it's funny, earlier on in our podcasts,
 and this was months ago, I referred to two firewalls
 that I liked a lot, and that's Tiny and Kerrio.
 We had a lot of people who wrote back and said,
 "Wait a minute, they're both being discontinued."
 And it turns out that they were sort of
 partly being discontinued, they were changing there in nature.
 I did some research about six months ago
 on the next versions of my leak test freeware,
 gonna be leak test version two and version three,
 that we're gonna be looking at sort of next generation threats
 aside from what my little first leak test did.
 From looking at all the firewalls out there,
 my two favorites were Tiny and Kerrio, which is at the time,
 which is what I mentioned, okay.
 The really good news is Alex Ekelberry of Sunbelt Software
 is a good guy, Sunbelt Software's down in Florida.
 They've got a bunch of security and privacy-related applications.
 He liked Kerrio so much that he bought it.
 - Oh, neat.
 - So Kerrio has a new home, a new publisher.
 - And then they've renamed it to Sunbelt and suspenders?
 - It's, they're leaving the name Kerrio,
 'cause I guess he got the rights to that too.
 It used to be, I think it was $44.95 or $45 or something.
 He's dropped the price to $19.95.
 - Right.
 - And through March of this year,
 he's like having a, we bought a new firewall special.
 I guess what you call it, a fire sale?
 Firewall sale, $14.95.
 Now, the free version is really all anyone needs.
 Kerrio does a number of things-
 - So they're still doing a free version.
 - Yes, and they will always do a free version.
 I think it's a, it's four point, I don't know,
 four point, one point, something, you know, it's got the
 version that changes frequently.
 But it's being kept up state of the art.
 It does pop up blocking and cookie handling
 and some nice additional features.
 It also does something which is increasingly important,
 which is it deals with root kit type behavior.
 It watches processes that are trying to start other processes.
 And so it will catch many sorts of malicious behavior
 that your typical standard firewall will not catch.
 And I think even the free version has that.
 It's the cookie handling and pop up blocking and things
 that are, that you get extra in the paid version.
 But even the paid version is $14.95 through the end of March.
 So anyway, if I had-
 - Are you recommending this for people who already have routers?
 - Well, there are, okay, routers will protect you
 from any external intrusion.
 And XP Service Pack 2's built in firewall,
 which is free, protects you similarly,
 similarly from any external intrusion.
 There are a lot of people who really like knowing
 what's going on in their computer.
 And they want, when they're running a new program,
 they want a software firewall to alert them
 when this program is trying, as this caller asks,
 to phone the mothership, you know, to phone home.
 And so, in fact, it's the way I found
 the very first spyware I encountered
 was I was beta testing the original zone alarm,
 and it popped up something saying that TS Adbot
 was trying to use my internet connection.
 Well, I didn't know what that was
 or that I had anything like that in my machine.
 So, I mean, I was really glad to have it for that purpose.
 - Do current attacks, Trojans turn off software firewalls?
 - Well, that's one of the problems
 when you have a firewall as pervasive as Service Pack 2's
 firewall in Windows XP is it's not invulnerable
 because any software that gets into your machine
 pretty much can do whatever it wants to
 inside of your machine.
 - So it could disable it?
 - So it certainly could disable it.
 And I mean, the firewalls have been in sort of the standard,
 you know, like anti-virus, virus cat and mouse game.
 Here, it's like the Trojans versus the firewalls game
 where the firewalls are continually trying
 to strengthen themselves against new ways to be turned off.
 So you really want to keep stuff out of your computer
 because once something gets in,
 you're pretty much in trouble.
 - So which begs the question,
 what do you need outbound protection for?
 - I mean, I don't disagree.
 It is more hassle because things are popping up,
 asking if you want to give them permission.
 The firewall will learn if it's okay
 for this application like Internet Explorer,
 Outlook Express and so forth,
 and Skype and so forth.
 I am not a user of an outbound firewall
 because I pay a lot of attention to my machine.
 To my machine, I'm very careful with what I install,
 but personal firewalls are very popular.
 People are constantly writing saying,
 what's the best personal firewall?
 So there it is.
 So there's the answer.
 Is it Kerrio?
 It's gonna live on from now on at Sunbelt Software.
 There are great people and they've dropped the price down
 and they're gonna keep it current and fix the bugs
 and so forth.
 - Excellent.
 Dylan in San Francisco writes,
 is there anything I can do to stop recreating
 the same adware tracking cookies on my PC?
 For instance, I'll run Spybot adaware,
 Microsoft's Defender on one day
 and remove all the problem cookies.
 Then the very next day I'll run the same programs
 and they're back.
 - Well, as you and I have talked about before,
 a lot of the so-called spyware or bad cookies
 are just stuff that your system collects.
 Some of these adware tools get a little carried away
 in trying to demonstrate their effectiveness
 in talking about or in discriminating what's bad
 and what's good.
 - It looks great, if you say.
 You had 60 infections and I removed them all,
 but they're all cookies.
 - 432, I mean, I hear people talk about these insane numbers
 of stuff that was found and it's like,
 okay, not all of that is bad.
 - So what should you do?
 It's kind of unusable to use the net without cookies.
 You've gotta leave cookies on it.
 - Well, and you and I have talked about this before.
 We're going to talk about this in detail
 in an upcoming podcast,
 but essentially what's happening is third-party cookies
 are what these things are detecting,
 like double-click cookies and ad cookies.
 As we have discovered, Leo,
 actually it's when we were doing a call for help show,
 we looked at the various browsers,
 all browsers today by default enable third-party cookies.
 That's what you want to turn off.
 In Opera and in Mozilla and Firefox,
 there's normally a checkbox that says,
 allow third-party cookies or four in cookies or something.
 Yeah, you want, whichever the--
 - The cookies from originating site only
 is what you really want.
 - Yes, and Internet Explorer, it turns out,
 doesn't have an easy way to do that.
 They've got a very scary button
 down in their configuration dialogue that says advanced,
 as if, oh, I don't know if I'm old enough to press that.
 It turns out, just push the advance button.
 No, none of their default cookie handling
 actually handles cookies the way you want.
 When you press the advance button,
 you get a simple dialogue where you can say,
 allow first-party cookies, deny third-party cookies,
 and problem over.
 And that's a large part of what,
 of the debris that keeps coming back into someone's system
 after they've cleaned it out.
 - And that's really the only risk from cookies
 is these third-party images of third-party cookies.
 Those are the real risks,
 'cause I just don't let those load in here.
 And then you don't have to delete the rest,
 and if they come back, it's not a big deal.
 - Right.
 - Charles writes from Katie, Texas,
 asking, "With US government NSA eavesdropping
 "and spying so much in the news,
 "do you really think that SSL, SSH,
 "and other things we think are safe,
 "are truly safe from the folks who have this high-end stuff
 "and big computers like the NSA?
 "Can't they can crack through this stuff, can't they?"
 - No.
 - No, no.
 - There are, the good news is, academic people
 and cryptologists who are not part of the NSA
 with no axe to grind have developed
 this current state-of-the-art crypto.
 We understand exactly how it works and why it's uncrackable.
 For example--
 - It just takes that long to factor prime numbers, period.
 - Or to take the log of a really huge exponent.
 The Diffie-Hellman key exchange operates
 by raising a large number to a large power.
 - You can throw a lot of computer power at it,
 but if you get enough bits in your encryption,
 it's still gonna take to the end of the universe.
 - Right, so the beauty of cryptography
 is that it seems complex and mysterious to us.
 To the cryptographers, it's not.
 You take two really large prime numbers
 and you multiply them together
 and you get this really huge number.
 Now, it turns out that cracking crypto
 is a matter of finding out what the two primes are
 that made up this really huge number.
 There's no fast way to do that.
 I mean, people have studied this thing.
 - That could happen down the road, some brilliant mathematician
 could crack this by coming up a way to do it.
 - But we would all know.
 - Yes, so the beauty is it's not like
 this is based on some reliance on aliens
 or something bizarre that we don't understand.
 We know why it cannot be broken in a feasible time
 and then I say it may not be happy about the fact
 that they would have to put on amazing supercomputers
 to crunch something for a year to crack it.
 But it really, I mean, everything we know says
 nobody can do this.
 - You're okay.
 - You really are.
 - Even the spooks can't do it.
 - Because again, it's we know why it's safe.
 It's not like it's safe because no one's broken it yet.
 - Can we say so?
 - Exactly.
 We know what it takes to break it and it just takes too long.
 - What is the minimum bit length you recommend?
 - 128 bits now, 128 bits of symmetric cryptography.
 Now we're gonna be doing very shortly here
 a really nice podcast explaining symmetric
 and asymmetric and public keys and how all that stuff works.
 But 128 bits of symmetric crypto is plenty strong.
 - I'm gonna throw in some of my questions here
 'cause when you talk about SSL, you talk about 128 bit
 but when you talk about RSA encryption,
 you talk about 1,024.
 - Yes.
 - Are those comparable?
 - And even SSL will have a 1024 bit component
 because those protocols use both public key
 and private key that is asymmetric and symmetric crypto.
 So the initial key exchange
 which you're using for authenticating a remote server,
 that uses a public and a private key pair
 because that type of crypto is fundamentally less secure
 the way you strengthen its security
 is by ramping the bit depth up high.
 So 1024 bits and in fact, I'm using OpenVPN
 in 2048 bit length just because--
 - Why not?
 - Yes, exactly and I mean that's just ridiculously strong.
 - It can slow things down a little bit
 but not significantly.
 - Well and the actual crypto operations
 and this is what we'll talk about in detail later.
 The actual crypto operations for bit lengths that long
 are so slow that you cannot afford to do it
 with your actual bulk data that you're shipping back and forth.
 - I see, so that's just for the key.
 - Exactly.
 - And then the crypto is 128 bit.
 - They use the public key technology,
 the asymmetric key just to exchange a 128 bit private key
 and that keeps it private so that only the two of them know it,
 then they get to use high speed crypto,
 they use a shorter key lengths and is super secure.
 - Now I understand.
 So one is for the public key, one's for the private key.
 - John and Sunnyvale, California has a complaint
 that I have, I share with John.
 (laughing)
 I'm always giving you a hard time on this.
 He says there's no way to find your password generator page
 from your site.
 Could you please put a link on the homepage
 so I can send friends there?
 - Well, before answering this question, I have done that.
 - No, have you?
 - Yes, our homepage has GRC's perfect password page
 or something like that.
 Right on the homepage.
 - You've always had to dig through your site.
 - I know, it just, it keeps growing
 and I've never, you should see my closet.
 (laughing)
 - No, no, maybe you shouldn't.
 - Anyway.
 - So there's no conspiracy theory here.
 I always thought, well, he just wants me to see everything
 he has.
 - Oh, that's good too.
 Yeah, oh, that's why, Leo.
 Yeah, that's the reason.
 (laughing)
 Actually, it's just GRC.com/passwords.
 That'll do it.
 That's all it takes.
 But for those who can't remember,
 GRC.com/passwords, if you can get to GRC.com,
 it is there now on the homepage.
 - I know some good web designers.
 We're doing a redesign on Twitch.
 You want me to--
 - I'm getting interested.
 - You know, it wouldn't hurt.
 - It wouldn't, yeah.
 - Maybe they're not--
 - Maybe they're not--
 - Maybe they're not get lost on my own website.
 You understand how it works.
 Paul in Athens, Ohio writes,
 "What's the comparative security
 "of Windows, Linux, and Unix Mac?"
 This is a very common question.
 A lot of people say, oh, you Mac people.
 It's gonna be just as bad as soon as Mac is as popular
 as Windows.
 They're just as insecure.
 Well, are they?
 - Okay, to do just as this,
 it's worth saying that Microsoft's Windows
 started out being a catastrophe.
 I mean, it was never designed for the internet.
 Apparently, no one at Microsoft understood
 what it meant to even design an operating system
 for the internet.
 I mean, for years and years and years,
 they had problems that were not,
 I mean, like, not just bugs, not mistakes.
 I could forgive anybody's.
 Yes, they were running open servers,
 you know, file and printer sharing,
 sitting there exposed.
 - This was a corporate issue,
 'cause Bill Gates didn't really think about the internet
 until he came to it very late.
 I remember when he suddenly hit the light went on
 and he turned around the whole company on the dime.
 - Well, remember MSN was gonna be his AOL killer.
 When everyone was doing dial-up,
 he was gonna have, you know,
 and then the internet happened and he said, whoops,
 we need a browser.
 - So no surprise, but have they been able to catch up?
 In other words, they didn't start with good security,
 have they been able to fix that?
 - With security, the size of your code,
 the complexity of the code are always killers.
 And Windows is huge and bloated and very complex.
 I mean, it's feature-packed,
 but features are all potential security risks.
 In all fairness, Windows is getting so much better.
 I mean, the change with XP and service pack
 to putting a firewall in that would prevent external intrusion
 and having it on by default, that was a huge win.
 Now, the Mac and to a somewhat lesser degree Linux,
 but also Linux, the Mac, because of course,
 it's based on Unix.
 Unix was the founding OS of the internet.
 They mean the guys who wrote TCP,
 they implemented it on the Unix platform.
 - Well, I do have to point out that even though
 Unix was always a multi-user operating system
 and was permissions aware and they had passwords,
 they also, like everybody else,
 were kind of tilted in favor of openness.
 And some of Unix was not designed very securely
 in the beginning, but it was 30 years old.
 And again, it's-- - 35.
 - It's evolving.
 The problem is any time you do new stuff,
 you know, like a PHP interpreter's,
 PHP has had all kinds of security vulnerabilities
 because it was put together and put out and tested,
 but then-- - And there were people banged on it.
 - And then people banged on it.
 So-- - So what's the bottom line answer?
 - I don't really think there is a simple summary.
 I would say that Windows is far better today
 than it ever has been before.
 That they are showing signs of finally figuring out
 what they need to do,
 and Microsoft understands security really matters.
 - I'm still using a Mac.
 Angie Bray of Venice, California writes,
 "How and why are pop-ups triggered
 "only when I open a browser?
 "Does a malicious software rewrite the code for IE?"
 I've noticed when a computer is hijacked
 or compromised in any way, it all starts
 when I open up a browser.
 - Yeah. - What's the deal?
 - Well, this is JavaScript, or active script,
 or some sort of script-- - Or active X.
 - Or active X, some sort of scripting technology.
 The problem is, and this was something really
 that Netscape is responsible for
 because that's where this all came from,
 was they wanted websites as web servers
 that you visited with your browser
 to be able to make more dynamic pages
 than just these, you know, like my pages.
 On my website, which are just content
 and just sort of sit there-- - Static.
 - And you click links and you scroll around,
 but there's nothing fancy going on.
 - It only changes when Steve opens up his HTML editor.
 - And types ASCII into my, actually it's my notepad
 that I do the web pages in.
 - But many pages are not that way.
 They run scripts all the way.
 - Well, and users want more functionality.
 So really, our browsers are much more functional
 because they are running scripts
 which are provided to them by the websites they visit.
 - It's client-side scripts that are the problem though.
 Server-side scripts like PHP, like Perl, like all--
 - It's a very good distinction.
 - That is running on the server, not on your computer.
 - Yes. - And that's safe.
 - So what happens is you go to a site
 and not only are you downloading the webpage content,
 you're also also actually downloading
 an executable script code
 which runs on your browser in your computer.
 And if it says, "Open a new window,"
 that's what your browser does.
 - Which is why Firefox might be a little bit safer
 from Spyware because it doesn't have ActiveX
 or ActiveScripting so it's more limited
 in the things it can do.
 It's actually a dumb--
 - Although it's got JavaScript.
 - Right. - It certainly has JavaScript
 and JavaScript is able to do these things as well.
 I guess the point is in order to answer Angie's question
 is it's the site you're visiting
 that is doing this through your browser.
 So if you don't like that,
 you can either disable those features
 or don't visit that site.
 But it's not like the internet in general
 that's somehow tunneling through your browser.
 - Well, but if you accidentally download Spyware
 or if you have an ActiveX--
 - Oh, if you've got bad stuff.
 - You can have a program running a computer,
 it doesn't need your browser,
 can pop up stuff even when you're not online.
 That's another, that's really Spyware
 and that's a whole other conversation from popups.
 Bert in Redford, Michigan asks,
 "You mentioned that formatting a system
 "and reinstalling removes most root kits,
 "but not necessarily all viruses
 "some can reside on track zero or the master.
 "Right, we did talk about that a few weeks ago.
 "So will a low level format
 "or using the manufacturer's software
 "to write zeros to the driver,
 "move all information, including that track zero?"
 - There's a very cool free open source tool
 called Derek's Boot and Nuke, DBAN.
 - That's a must have for everybody.
 - Yes, what this does is it allows you
 to burn your own CD from an ISO.
 You can just put DBAN into a search engine.
 It'll find Derek's Boot and Nuke.
 This thing creates a little bootable Linux
 that runs a scrubbing program.
 - Which we'll do, by the way, good disk erasing,
 so it's good if you want to really clear off your disk.
 - Oh, it'll do serious overkill
 - But it also does a master boot record and all--
 - Absolutely.
 So for example, if you want to start over from scratch
 and have and absolutely know that nothing bad at all
 was on your drive--
 - Boot and Nuke it.
 - Boot and Nuke it.
 Or if you're decommissioning a computer,
 you're going to give it--
 - Right.
 - Donate it to a school or something.
 You know, scrub the drive with Derek's Boot and Nuke
 and there'll be just nothing left behind.
 - Low level format is not only not advisable,
 it's not possible in modern drives.
 - Well, true low level format isn't.
 Some manufacturers will allow you to trigger
 a low level format on their drive.
 What they're doing is they're writing zeros
 throughout the entire drive.
 - If your drive manufacturer lets you do that,
 that will erase the whole drive to zeros.
 It won't deeply erase it.
 So the NSA can get the data back if it came to that.
 - You know, I asked Simpson Garfinkel this
 because he's the MIT graduate student
 who did the study of hard drives.
 They bought a bunch of hard drives on eBay
 and found passwords, ATM card information.
 - Oh, just all in the clear right there.
 - And I asked him, I said,
 do you really need to do this, you know,
 a race really white ones and zeros or race?
 He said, no, you know, not really.
 That's, you know, I don't know of any way, even the NSA really.
 - Right.
 - But nevertheless, Derek and Spooken Nuke does do that.
 - Yep.
 - And Spooken Nuke is free.
 Grant, UC Berkeley writes,
 I can't use Windows Remote Desktop
 because I don't have XP Pro to be a host.
 You have to have Pro.
 You can use it as a client with XP and 95, 98,
 even on a Mac, but the hosting requires Pro.
 He said, real VNC has been suggested on the Hamachi forums.
 Is real VNC secure?
 - I use real VNC, yeah, as a matter of fact, all the time.
 - Yeah, the VNC project was, I think,
 started by some AT&T folks.
 - Some AT&T in the UK, yeah, but it was UK.
 - And it's a terrific solution if you need multi-platform.
 It's Linux, Mac, PC, so cross-platform.
 You're able to run the server side on one platform
 and the client side on the other.
 And there's also something called tight VNC,
 which is a free version.
 - That's what I use on Windows, yeah.
 - Yeah, real VNC has--
 - I use Chicken of the VNC on the Mac, by no way.
 - Chicken of the VNC, oh my God.
 - That's very good.
 - There are three versions of real VNC.
 There's a free edition, there's a personal edition
 and an enterprise edition.
 The free edition is not secure.
 It will allow you to log on in a secure fashion
 using a challenge pass phrase handshake,
 but after you've done the log on,
 the actual data is in the clear, it is not encrypted.
 So--
 - When we use this, we set up a VPN first,
 establishing a tunnel, a encrypted tunnel,
 and then use VNC over the VPN and that's secure.
 - Exactly what I was gonna say was that if the question was,
 could I use this with Hamachi and would it be secure?
 - Then it would be.
 - Absolutely.
 And so you could definitely use any version of real VNC,
 even the free one over Hamachi,
 and it's gonna give you good performance,
 and Hamachi will provide the security.
 If you ever need to use real VNC outside of Hamachi,
 and you certainly can,
 you're probably gonna wanna use the personal edition,
 which is $30, and there's a trial period and all that,
 and because it invokes serious state-of-the-art encryption
 over your entire connection, both your log on
 and all communications afterwards.
 - Brian in Toronto says,
 "I never give out my name online."
 So how do the RIAA and the MPAA find me?
 How do they know my name and address?
 They only have my IP address, how can I hide that?
 - Well, first of all, they don't have your name and address,
 they only have your IP address.
 - Well, they start out with only having your IP address.
 - They have to file what's called a John Doe lawsuit.
 - Exactly, your ISP knows your IP address.
 Even somebody like AOL who's issuing IPs
 on a very short-term basis, they've got logs
 so that they know who had that IP address
 during which period of time.
 And so, if something were to compel them like a court order,
 and this is how the RIAA and the MPAA,
 the people who are going assuming people
 who are doing file sharing, the way they get those
 is that they collect all these IPs,
 they get court orders to compel the ISPs
 to release the actual physical name and address
 of the person who had the IP either that week,
 in the case of like a cable modem
 that has a relatively static IP,
 or during a particular hour of the day,
 if you were like an AOL user.
 So, even though you feel like you've got some anonymity,
 your true anonymity has limits on the internet.
 - When people use BitTorrent, your IP address is known,
 you wouldn't be of any peer to peer,
 you wouldn't be able to do it if you didn't have an IP
 that somebody could hook up to, that's what it means.
 - And the RIAA and these other people
 who are trying to prevent this,
 they've invested serious technology
 in like creating IP scraping systems.
 - Money pots.
 - Like exactly like fake BitTorrent clients
 and fake Kazaa and all these clients
 that are being used for peer to peer sharing,
 they're able to get in and harvest
 who's got which files and what IP they are.
 Now, the other part of the question here.
 - So how can I buy my IP address?
 - Yes, was how to hide it.
 There is an interesting system called the Tor System.
 It stands for the onion router.
 Onion routers are deliberate like proxy routers
 that allow you to send your traffic through them.
 If you just put Tor, T-O-R into a search engine,
 you'll find the onion router project.
 There are hundreds of these routers
 set up all over the world and it's actually being funded
 by our free speech folks, the EFF.
 Yes, the EFF is currently hosting the site
 and financing the project because they believe in free speech
 and freedom of for use of the internet.
 - Now as long as these anonymizing servers
 don't keep logs, you're okay.
 - And they explicitly do not keep logs.
 - They have to destroy them.
 - And also you normally bounce through three or four
 or five of these things before you come out
 of the other end and I mean, you're just untraceable
 at that point.
 - That's an anonymizer works this way too.
 And that's one of the disadvantages of that
 is it does slow you down because it's reversing
 a lot more money.
 - And the onion router system is free
 so you don't have to pay for it.
 Whereas you do for anonymizer.
 Anonymizer, as you said, is a business
 specifically put on earth here to exactly.
 You have to pay them some amount of money per month
 but the traffic stops there.
 - It's 35 a year.
 - And they protect your identity.
 - I also use an iPhanim which does the same thing.
 You have instead of your IP address,
 you have the iPhanim IP address.
 - And iPig, the iPig system, the iOpus iPig client,
 if you were using them to route your traffic,
 no one would be able to know who your real IP was.
 - But I have to tell you that if a court order comes down,
 most of these at least commercial entities
 are gonna cave in and if they say
 who was using your system unless these guys
 explicitly destroy logs so that they can't answer
 that court order, you're just as much at risk.
 - Right.
 - So you really should ask a commercial entity,
 what do you do with those logs?
 Do you keep track of who's using?
 - Right.
 - What services?
 - So for example, grc.com, I keep no logs.
 I will turn them on briefly if I'm needing to figure out
 something that is wrong but I don't log any of the traffic
 at GRC.
 - I like that.
 We're gonna get a hat for you, John's got no logs.
 - I keep no logs.
 - You get some spam.
 - I keep no logs.
 - I keep no logs.
 You know, I should do that with my servers too.
 You have iS, so I can't ask you how to do it
 but I'm sure on Apache there's a way to just say,
 hey, that log gets turned off either doesn't get kept
 or gets just deleted.
 - And it lightens the load too.
 - I can do it with cron.
 Yeah, 'cause it's really--
 - Logs are huge.
 - Huge.
 Last but not least, Joe from Iowa Falls, Iowa,
 says, I have a question about wireless security.
 Is there a potential risk when setting up
 your WPA protected network as the key will be transmitted
 wirelessly?
 Pre-shared key.
 - Well, it's called a pre-shared key
 because it's not transmitted wirelessly.
 There is no exchange of keys in this environment.
 The IT. - You have to ask me.
 - Well, you have to use another, you know,
 technically it's called a secure channel
 which is just like writing it down on a piece of paper
 and manually typing it into the other end.
 That's the secure channel.
 No one's able to get you, you know,
 from anywhere on the internet.
 - So the key is never sent over the internet?
 - It is never sent over the internet.
 And in fact, derivative keys are used and generated
 on the fly.
 This is with that TKIP, the Temporal Keying Integrity
 Protocol that WPA uses.
 The idea is that only if endpoints already know the key,
 which they got because they were configured that way,
 not using any kind of radio connection
 or even network connection.
 - So it's not like this challenge response thing
 where it says, what's the password?
 Here's the password.
 We're never sending them the password.
 - Yeah, absolutely never.
 - Oh, that's interesting.
 - Yeah, and so, I mean, it has been engineered
 from the start, the right way, unlike web encryption,
 which as we know is badly broken.
 - Well, I thank all of you for your questions.
 There's of course many more that we have time to answer
 on a single podcast, but we love doing this
 and we will do it every fourth show.
 - Yep.
 - Conditions permitting.
 Next week, next week we're gonna start
 with the long anticipated series, How The Internet Works.
 - It's only a month late.
 That's not so late.
 - It's been a busy month.
 - It's been a busy month.
 - There's been a lot to talk about.
 We're glad you listen to security now.
 We hope you'll keep listening every Tuesday
 at twit.tv or grc.com/securitynow.html.
 In fact, Steve, I know you're almost 5,000 people a day
 download the podcast from your site alone.
 - Or yeah, well, all of our audio files,
 'cause I have an archive of everything
 that we've ever done, and here we are,
 we're at the end of our sixth month
 of doing security now, both in the high quality 64 kilobit
 as well as a very low bit rate, 16 kilobit
 for people who don't have the bandwidth.
 We also should mention that we know we are having
 some trouble with truncated files.
 This is due to the Akamai servers
 that our provider AOL is using.
 They went to Akamai because they were pushing
 3.4 terabytes a day, and they had to.
 And we know we're working it out,
 and we think that this will be solved soon.
 But if you do have, if you have been getting
 truncated podcasts, just send me an email saying,
 you know, I'm having trouble with the Akamai,
 I need your IP address, your location,
 that'll help, and how big the file was that you did get
 that will help us track down which servers
 are not caching properly.
 And for what it's worth, I serve the low bandwidth files
 from my own server.
 That's HTTP, so it's always compatible.
 And I always make sure that that's correct.
 So my high bandwidth links do link to AOL,
 so you'll still have a problem.
 But if you did have a problem with a truncated,
 high quality file, let Leo know,
 and then you can always get the lower quality
 from me directly, and I know it won't be truncated.
 I think we're going to set up a bit torrent version as well,
 so that there's at least always one good--
 we can't afford to provide the bandwidth for it.
 We just-- and thank goodness the AOL music is there,
 because if it weren't for AOL, none of this would be happening.
 We wouldn't have Twitch security now inside the net,
 none of these pockets.
 But I think I'm going to start doing
 bit torrents of everything.
 So should something go wrong with the AOL?
 We'll have a backup.
 You'll always be able to get it via bit torrent.
 And I'm recommending a really neat new program
 for downloading these bit torrents that makes it very easy to do.
 But I forgot that I think it's firefly.tv.
 But you can go to the website and there's
 been information on that at twitch.tv.
 And of course, Mark Thompson has BitPump,
 which is his BitPump client.
 Very easy to use BitPump client.
 And nice web windows on that.
 File managers.
 Oh, yeah, Windows-- oh, no, Mac also.
 He did a Mac client?
 Yeah.
 Marked.
 AnalogX talks.
 That's right.
 Oh, wow.
 Mark's really spreading his wings.
 AnalogX.com.
 Now I know the world's almost come to an end.
 Again, transcripts, low bandwidth versions,
 and lots more information about everything
 we talk about available at grc.com/securitynow.htm.
 And by the way, while you're at grc.com,
 don't forget SpinRight, the ultimate disk recovery
 and maintenance utility.
 If you've got a problem with a hard drive,
 if you've got a file you can't recover,
 please do yourself a favor.
 Get SpinRight.
 I have it, and I use it all the time.
 Makes it all possible at my end, Leo.
 Yes, that's-- well, it's our advertising.
 Yeah.
 It pays Steve's bills.
 We do thank our good friends at AOL Radio,
 who not only broadcast this on their podcast channel,
 but also provide us with the bandwidth for this at aolmusic.com.
 And we thank you so much for joining us.
 See you next time.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
