 (upbeat music)
 - This is "Security Now" with Steve Gibson,
 episode 25 for February 2nd, 2006.
 How the internet works, hard one.
 (upbeat music)
 - Steve Gibson and a very good data user.
 How are you today?
 - Hey Leo, great to be back with you.
 - I wanna thank you for sending me that great sci-fi book.
 Tell me the name, dragon.
 - It's called "Fallen Dragon."
 - Yeah, Peter F. Hamilton is my current,
 my favorite sci-fi author.
 I've read everything he has in print.
 And in fact, I'm rereading the last book I read of his,
 'cause it's been a couple years,
 and he's coming out with the second part of that book,
 which was the first one was called Pandora's Star.
 Anyway, I love sci-fi,
 and you can't find enough movies and TV,
 so I read when I'm not doing anything else.
 - Well, as you know, I'm off on a cruise,
 and I just needed a book,
 so the timing couldn't have been better.
 I can't wait to read it.
 - Yeah, "Fallen Dragon" is a really nice novel.
 - I'm gonna give you a really nice novel.
 - I can't wait.
 - Meanwhile, we're gonna talk about
 how the internet works in just a little bit,
 but I've got to ask you about Kamasutra,
 which is not the Indian book of love,
 but in fact, a virus that is expected to hit hard
 on Friday the third.
 - Well, you have the good news is
 that it's been known for a couple weeks.
 It was for--
 - How do we know about it?
 - January 20th, well, people began getting it,
 and interestingly enough,
 every instance of the virus that infects a machine
 goes and pokes a website that has a web counter on it.
 So by looking at the counter,
 people have been able to determine
 approximately how many copies there are.
 Some hacker just wanted some glory, didn't he?
 - I guess, who knows?
 What's significant about this virus,
 and the reason we're talking about it today,
 and we don't normally talk about viruses,
 I mean, there's a hundred new ones a week, literally,
 is that this is a destructive virus.
 Most current viruses and worms
 have the goal of getting into someone's machine
 for the purpose of taking it over,
 for spamming or using it as a denial of service,
 launch, attack, launch platform, or something.
 This is the first virus or slash worm we've had for a while,
 where it's deliberately destructive to the user's computer.
 What it does is it overwrites the contents
 of doc files, Excel spreadsheets,
 PowerPoint presentations, zips, rars, PDF files,
 and MDB databases, and it doesn't just delete them,
 it actually fills the file with garbage,
 so it's less clear what's happened,
 and of course, if you didn't know this had happened
 and you were doing regularly scheduled backups,
 you might overwrite your good backups
 with now garbage filled, newer versions.
 - This is like the old days of viruses,
 when they really used to all be destructive,
 they haven't been in a while.
 - That's true, because again, the whole new goal
 is to acquire these botnets and fleets of things
 which the hackers, the malicious hackers,
 then rent out for, you know, in order to get payment.
 So on our show notes site, on our show notes page
 for episode 25, I've got a link to,
 I sort of summarize what this is all about.
 It launches 30 minutes after you start your computer
 on the third of any month, and so tomorrow,
 being February 3rd, will be the first launch event
 for this, it's called Commasutra, it's called Black Mall.
 It's actually a flavor of a worm slash virus
 that's been around for a couple years,
 but this latest incarnation of it
 has changed its behavior in this very malicious fashion.
 So it's also called NYXEM, I don't know how you pronounce that,
 but Symantec has a very nice, free little scanner
 that I have a link to on our show notes page.
 It's easy to download, you don't have to register yourself
 or give them your email address or anything.
 It just, it's very clean, you can grab the scanner,
 run it on your machine.
 Now, again, I don't want to over-hype this at all
 because all AV companies have known about this
 for a couple of weeks since it was first discovered
 several weeks ago.
 So it's probable that no one who's security conscious
 and is updating their AV patterns consistently
 is gonna have a problem with this,
 but if our listeners know of people
 who have had problems with viruses or aren't that careful,
 it might be worth them telling their less security conscious
 friends to run this little scanner just to make sure
 because it is, if it hits you, it's potentially damaging.
 - By the way, somebody asked me,
 and I do the same thing, I recommend these removal tools
 or these standalone scanners from Symantec.
 They said to me, well, you know, you hate Norton antivirus.
 How is it you recommend Symantec's removal tools?
 - It's just clean, I ran across it, I tried it today,
 I recommended it to both of my employees
 and I sent out a little, a very small little email
 to people who I know, you know,
 it wouldn't hurt them just to run this.
 - And as I point out, there's a big difference
 between a small one-time-only program that does this
 and a big bloated, huge program that takes over
 your system, so.
 - Right, I mean, you know, unfortunately Symantec,
 I mean, I don't want to criticize it to people
 who are sensitive to and love Symantec,
 but, you know, I like small, lightweight solutions
 and Symantec is widely regarded in the industry
 as having really gone the other direction.
 It's just huge.
 - But their labs are still good,
 their virus researchers are still very good
 and the removal tools they write are absolutely great,
 they do the job.
 - Right, well, speaking of viruses while we're on the topic,
 PC World just released their March 2006 results
 for malware detection software.
 One of the questions I get constantly,
 and I know you do too, Leo, is what's the best AV?
 Well, you know, that's just answering that question,
 or like doing the research myself,
 is the last thing I'm ever gonna do.
 - Oh, ever.
 - It's impossible.
 - Well, it's too many viruses, too many programs.
 You just need a lab to do it.
 - Well, PC World has done a very nice job
 and also on our show notes page,
 I have a link to their comprehensive review.
 What I will tell people,
 and I'll just sort of, for the fun of it,
 read this off from Best to Least Good.
 Their Best Buy choice was Bitdefender 9 Standard Edition,
 which got their top rating, a score of 92,
 and they called it Superior.
 It's the number one choice for what they were looking for,
 and they have charts and all the details.
 Number two was McAfee's virus scan 2006.
 Coming in third place was Casper C Labs,
 anti-virus personal 5.0.
 Then F-Secure anti-virus,
 then Symantec Norton anti-virus 2006 in fifth place.
 Panda software was in sixth.
 Antiver Personal Edition 7,
 something called AWILL Software Avast Home Edition,
 4.6 was in eighth place.
 - That's a free one of vast.
 A lot of people use that, yeah.
 - Yes, yes, and PC World say it was good
 and gave it a 77 rating.
 Trend Micro's PC Sillan took ninth place.
 - Really below either of the free ones,
 anti-vir and a vast, that's interesting.
 - And it's $50, whereas Bitdefender is $30.
 - Wow.
 - The number one ranked by PC World,
 and then finally AVG's free edition
 was in last place, number 10.
 - I'm a little disappointed that in review,
 my favorite not 32, but I guess they left a point.
 Yeah, there are other anti-viruses,
 although their top five are all well known.
 I'm not a big McAfee fan,
 I thought that was interesting that came in second,
 but it does a good job,
 it's just another one of those big programs.
 - Right, right, it and Symantec.
 - So links on your show notes at grc.com/securitynow.html
 to this article so people can read the details.
 - Right.
 - Now, is it time?
 - Yep.
 - How the internet works,
 just as the beginning of a series we're gonna do deliberately
 to lay a bunch of foundation.
 I mean, I'm gonna try to really explain everything
 so that when we talk about specific issues
 relating to security, of course,
 I'll explain it while we go along
 in the context of security,
 since that's the whole point,
 not just to talk about bits for bits own sake,
 but I wanna lay down a foundation
 for what these terms use
 that we've already for the last 24 episodes
 been using glibly and most people understand them.
 But what I find is that when people write in,
 they even network directors for major IT companies,
 they say, "Yeah, I pretty much know
 "generally what you guys are always talking about,
 "but I always pick up something that had never occurred to me
 "or a little corner that I hadn't gone into before."
 - So a review of the basics is good for everybody.
 - All right.
 So the internet, when I first heard,
 and this is in the early '80s,
 I think it's when it first really became apparent
 that people were talking about the internet.
 You remember back then that we all had modems
 and they were dialing into the source or CompuServe.
 - CompuServe genies, yeah. - Exactly.
 This notion that we were gonna network
 all of the machines in the world
 or in some large space together just seemed loony to me
 because coming from a hardware background,
 I thought, "Okay, what about the wires?"
 - Yeah, loony, it seemed impossible.
 How are we gonna wire this all together?
 - And not to mention, I mean, at that time,
 if you had MCI mail, you couldn't send mail
 to somebody on genie and they couldn't send mail
 to somebody on CompuServe.
 They barely had gateways to one another,
 let alone talking to one another.
 - Right.
 - And in fact, the breakthrough in conceptual approach
 and this happened in the mid '60s actually,
 first at MIT and also at Stanford Research in Palo Alto
 was this concept of switching from the idea of a circuit
 to a packet and that was the key, you know?
 I don't think there's been a single security now episode
 where we haven't talked about packets, packets this,
 packets that, IPs and ports and packets.
 And a packet is the fundamental sort of like the DNA
 of the internet and it was that concept that people had
 that instead of actually, for example, running wires
 between you and everyone you wanna talk to,
 instead you could have an architecture
 where your data would go through intermediate spots
 that were richly interconnected and one way or another,
 your, these packets of data would get to their destination.
 But that was the key and in fact, you know,
 and that was the shift in thinking
 that really made the internet possible.
 You know, when I first heard,
 oh, we're gonna connect all the computers together.
 It's like, wait a minute, you know,
 if you have N computers, you've got N times N minus one
 interconnections, that is, if you connect every computer
 to every other computer.
 And so of course, the whole, the beauty of the internet
 is you don't need to do that at all.
 You need to connect your computer to some other computer
 or maybe to a so-called router,
 which is connected to another one,
 can I do another one, can I do another one?
 And with enough of those intermediate cross connections,
 your data can reach any other machine on the planet.
 And that's how the internet works, basically.
 - It's really a miracle.
 I mean, the phone system for years was a switched network
 where you had essentially a wire stretching between you
 and the other person on the other end.
 - And a whole bunch of wacky copper contact relays.
 - Or an operator who'd said number plays.
 - Right.
 - So all of that was just kind of eliminated
 by this notion of packets, we have a brilliant idea.
 So overall, what we're using today
 and the only, the only thing that most people feel
 is called version four, IPV4 or internet protocol version four.
 One, two and three were sort of starter protocols
 that didn't have much life.
 When we got to four, it was a rich enough solution
 that we've had it ever since.
 Essentially, all the internet that anyone knows
 has always been version four.
 Now, for strange historical reasons,
 version five isn't ever gonna happen.
 We're essentially going to eventually move to IPV6, version six.
 IPV6 isn't something that at this moment
 we're gonna ever spend much time talking about
 because it just hasn't happened.
 One of the concerns that was driving version six
 was people were worried we were gonna run out
 of addresses on the internet.
 It's funny when the very first designers of this started up.
 They said, I mean, they had no concept
 that people would be walking around with computers
 in their pocket that were part of some global network,
 which is of course what we have today.
 They were envisioning maybe national size networks
 of like universities or major corporations
 when they laid out a 32-bit address.
 Their idea was that the top byte,
 the first byte of the address would be the network number
 that is essentially the location number
 and the other 24 bits of the 32-bit address
 would be the machine at that location.
 So like a university would be three and then followed
 by which machine at that university
 and a different university would be four dot something.
 So that was the original concept
 was that they had the idea of huge local networks
 that were then able to reach across
 to another different local network
 using this internet protocol where the first number
 was which other network you wanted to go to.
 There was nothing like what we have today was envisioned.
 And so it's really something of a miracle
 that something that was designed so opportunistically,
 20 years ago, even a little more than that actually,
 has survived as well as it has.
 So what IPv6 will do is it expands
 that 32-bit IP address that we'll talk about here in a second
 in great detail.
 It expands that 32-bit IP address to 128 bits.
 Well, 32 bits is 4,294,967,296.
 - You can see why they thought that was alive.
 - Well, exactly.
 Even though they weren't even gonna use it that way,
 they were just gonna use the first byte,
 which can be zero through 255 as like which big mega node
 somewhere in the country, the packets should all go to,
 then they'd go to a particular machine
 at that university or corporation.
 So we have 4.3 almost billion IPs currently.
 Well, 28 bits for addressing
 which is what IPv6 gives us is really out of control.
 That's 3.4 times 10 to the 38 power.
 That's 340 billion, billion, billion, billion IPs.
 So it's clear.
 - That should be enough at least until we conquer
 a few more galaxies, I think.
 - Yeah, we don't have to worry about that.
 The problem is that it's not easily compatible with IPv4.
 The problem that IPv6 is having
 is that the manufacturers who are making the routers,
 I mean, even for example, the PC manufacturers
 are supporting version six, no no one's using it yet.
 Windows Server 2003 and XP can do IPv6,
 but you can't get it anywhere.
 I mean, there's nowhere to plug it in to get version six.
 Now, I mean, that's not strictly true.
 There are university environments
 which are sort of using it experimentally
 and in fact, what's happened is that
 in order to straddle the address change,
 IPv4, our little 32 bits sort of tucks itself
 in one little corner of IPv6,
 so that you're able to transport IP version four data
 across an IP version six network.
 It doesn't get confused and lost.
 You are able to do it.
 But for all intents and purposes,
 it just hasn't happened yet.
 So, is it just going to take so much to implement
 that it will never happen?
 Are people moving in that direction?
 I mean, with their IPv6.
 What's happened has been really interesting
 and that is that the NAT router technology
 that we talk about so much
 because it's such great security for typical home users,
 you know, home users are sharing many IPs in their home
 behind a single IP at their ISP,
 that is a single public IP.
 So, that's a perfect example of what's happened.
 If it worked for NAT router technology
 that basically allows many machines
 to share a single public IP,
 we really would be in trouble already
 with IP space depletion.
 But NAT routers happened
 and they're just a good thing for everybody.
 Corporations are using them.
 They're even some ISPs that are using NAT routers
 and putting all their customers behind a big NAT router
 because it really works very well, not perfectly,
 but very well, as most home users know.
 And so, the prevalence and birth of NAT routing technology
 has hugely reduced the pressure on the move to IPv6.
 Now, IPv6 is more than just bigger IP numbers,
 more than just this move from 32-bit IPs to 128-bit.
 It does offer also some inherent,
 what's called link-level security
 or IP-level security where you're able to encrypt
 your endpoint-to- endpoint connection using the protocol
 rather than having to lay it on separately
 as we've been talking about before,
 during all of our talk about VPN.
 So, there are some other features which are beneficial,
 but they're just not driving forces.
 And now that there's no big rush to IPv6
 due to the fact that we're not about to run out of IPs,
 it's really not clear when we're gonna make the move.
 It's the kind of thing, it's expensive to do.
 People have to remove equipment.
 And for example, all of the NAT routers
 that we have installed right now are IPv4.
 They're not IPv6.
 Probably the same is true with the cable modems,
 although I'm less sure of that.
 So my point is that we're talking about a massive obsolescence
 when we finally do move.
 It's sort of like how the FCC's been trying to push us
 to HDTV, and ultimately they're gonna be turning off
 the NTSC over the air to force those last people
 who've got, you know, here, you know,
 rabbit ears sticking out of their TV to finally move.
 If you don't do it, you know, if you don't turn it off,
 nobody's gonna change, frankly.
 Right.
 But no matter what, the essence of the internet
 are these things called packets.
 Now, a packet is nothing but a block of data.
 So the first thing, I mean, just in terms of demystification,
 a packet is nothing but just a blob of binary bits.
 The internet protocol defines the layout of these packets.
 And the, at the sort of like the outer layer,
 you've got a source IP and a destination IP,
 which as we've talked about are 32 bits uniquely specifying
 where this machine, where this packet came from
 on the internet and where it's going to.
 Now, in the original sort of pre-net version of the internet,
 packets actually did contain the IP address of the machine.
 We know that's no longer true because, for example,
 if, well, for example, right now, Leo, you and I
 are conversing over VoIP.
 Both of us are behind NAT routers.
 It happens that my computer is the IP address 10.0.0.10.
 Yours is probably 192.168.0.4, or one or something.
 So those are both private IPs that are non-routable.
 So the packets which are flowing between us across the internet
 do not identify our machines.
 They identify our NAT routers.
 Although that is a private, or not a private,
 a public address assigned to us by our internet service provider.
 I mean, it's a real address.
 Correct.
 But I guess the--
 But there's one per person instead of one per computer.
 Exactly.
 And it's when the packet arrives at our router
 that the router then does sort of the next level of job
 of figuring out which machine behind it
 has an established connection with the other endpoint.
 And so it then routes it inside of our local area network
 to the proper machine.
 So it's not the case that it's not the case any longer
 that IP addresses uniquely identify machines.
 They identify sort of like the public endpoint.
 And at that point, the network may go private
 as it does when it crosses into a NAT router.
 Even many universities are doing this.
 So people have asked when they're concerned
 about file sharing and NSA spying
 and how it is that their IP addresses
 can be tracked down to them.
 It's certainly the case that an IP address owned by an end user
 can be identified by their household.
 But once it goes into your NAT router,
 unless the router is logging specific IP assignments behind it--
 and most of them typically don't--
 but for example, universities and ISPs do--
 unless there was that, there's really
 no way for anyone to trace it beyond when the IP stops being
 public and switches into being a private IP.
 There's no way to know where it goes.
 People are using something called DHCP
 to assign those addresses.
 I do remember in the earliest days of these routers,
 people would sometimes use static IP addressing
 and buy five internet addresses and just use the router
 to kind of bridge almost as a hub, really, I guess.
 Well, yes, and in fact, the earlier days of DSL,
 you would be able to get from your phone company.
 You could get a DSL network with eight IPs.
 And you'd actually have eight physical public IPs,
 as opposed to just one.
 But again, because they're so scarce,
 it's really increasingly hard to do that.
 In fact, even people like myself where
 I've got a corporate network, you have to now fill out--
 and I had to do this less than a year ago--
 what they call an IP justification sheet, which
 they have on file in case they need
 to explain why they need the IP space they have.
 I mean, it's really becoming a scarce resource.
 And we're not running out, but there's already
 people being more responsible about the way
 these IPs are being handed out.
 Do you think we'll ever see IPV6 implemented?
 Well, I mean, it's scattered around.
 You can connect equipment together, and it does work.
 But in order for it to work from endpoint to endpoint,
 every single piece of equipment has
 to be IPV6 compatible along the way.
 And we're a long way from being there.
 It's just I really would be surprised if it happens.
 We figured out a way around it?
 Right.
 OK, so we have packets which have a source IP
 and a destination IP.
 The other thing that a standard internet protocol packet
 also has is what's called a protocol number.
 Now, that's an 8-bit byte that tells the system or routers.
 Basically, anyone handling this packet,
 what type of packet it is.
 And we've talked about ICMP, pings, and TCP and UDP.
 Well, all those things are just different bytes.
 ICMP happens to be a type 1.
 And TCP is a type 6, and UDP is a type 17.
 So the only thing that really differentiates
 these otherwise generic internet protocol packets
 is this one byte up at the front of the packet
 that says the rest of me is this type.
 And so that's how equipment that is having to deal with this
 knows what to do with it.
 ICMP is sort of used for plumbing maintenance.
 If links go down that is between two points,
 you're no longer able to ping the other endpoint,
 it's used by sort of the mechanics of the internet,
 sort of not as much for moving actual data,
 but for sort of managing the transport of the data
 and being able to check which equipment's online
 and for various sort of supervisory functions.
 One of the other interesting things
 that's in every internet packet is called the time
 to live, or the TTL, what you have
 with a whole bunch of routers all linked to each other.
 And we'll talk about how that works in a second.
 What you have is basically one router passing the packet
 to another router that then passes it to another
 and so on until it finally reaches its destination.
 Well, there is the possibility for so-called router loops
 where, for example, if one router were misconfigured,
 it might send the packet, instead of sort of sending it
 further towards its destination,
 it might send it upstream, by mistake,
 to a different router which would then receive it
 and just like it does any other packet,
 send it back towards its destination.
 Well, due to misconfiguration,
 you could end up with loops between routers
 so that one poor packet just sits there being handed off
 in a circle, never, never being able to reach its destination
 due to a misconfiguration.
 So the original designers recognized the danger of this
 and so they put a time to live in each packet.
 It's even though it says time, it's really not about time,
 it's about router handoffs, it's a counter
 and so systems will start off setting the time to live,
 for example, to 64 or 128 or some semi-arbitrary value,
 whatever they're configured to sort of launch packets
 out of themselves at and every time a router
 receives a new packet, it decrements that time
 to live counter by one.
 As long as it doesn't go to zero,
 it considers that the packet has not expired
 and so it looks at the destination IP,
 figures out which of its many multiple connections
 is like gonna take that packet closer to its destination
 and so it sends it on out of itself
 to another, to the next router in the chain.
 That router receives the packet, again,
 decrements that packet, that TTL by one
 and again, as long as it still has some life left in it,
 literally, as long as that counter hasn't hit zero,
 it forwards it again.
 So the beauty of this approach is that if a packet
 ever got stuck in a router loop,
 those routers passing it back and forth by mistake
 among themselves would each be decrementing this TTL toward zero.
 Finally, one of the routers, sort of like playing hot potato,
 one of the routers would decrement it from one to zero
 and at that point, the packet is said to have expired.
 What the router then does is it,
 because this is like abnormal behavior,
 you don't watch your packets, obviously, to be expiring,
 it will take the packet and sort of the first chunk
 of the packet and wrap that in one of our,
 what we were talking about before,
 an ICMP message called expired.
 It wraps it in an ICMP time expired message
 and sends it back to the IP
 that apparently put that packet onto the internet.
 Just to inform the sender that,
 hey, we don't know why,
 but we couldn't get your packet all the way
 to its destination before it expired.
 Well, one of the really interesting things
 that was happening actually only a few years ago
 is that systems were not configured
 with the present and growing size of the internet in mind.
 There were some computers, in fact,
 the early Windows machines that would set their packets TTLs,
 their time to live to 32.
 Well, back then, 20 years ago, 32 was enough,
 'cause what that would mean is
 that if you were sending it from a source location
 to a destination, you could go through 32 router handoffs
 before reaching the destination.
 Well, the internet, not being that big,
 sort of in terms of like the diameter of the routing,
 the so-called routing diameter of the internet,
 you would be able to get it there.
 But as ISPs became more internally complex,
 as more ISPs were born,
 and they hooked their routers to upstream routers,
 what happened was the so-called routing diameter
 of the internet grew to the point
 that it became larger than 32 routers.
 And what that meant was that there were some people
 who were using earlier versions of Windows
 or other operating systems that were still using a value,
 a starting value of this time to live that was too low,
 they were unable to reach other locations.
 Their packets would die, even with no routing problems at all,
 just 32 hops, and they hadn't quite gotten
 to their destination, and that final router would say,
 sorry, and send it back to the person
 who originally put that on to the internet,
 saying this thing died in transit.
 So one of the things that we've seen has happened recently
 is that as Windows and other operating systems
 have been run through their versions,
 this TTL has been bumped up to 64,
 and then typically to 128,
 sometimes up to its maximum value of 255,
 which if we ever get more than 255 routers
 between two points, we're really in trouble,
 'cause no data will ever be able to get
 from one end to the other, isn't that cool?
 - I really like the elegance of this solution,
 and is it, how much of it is planned ahead,
 how much of it is in response to problems as they come up?
 - That's one of the things that is shocking,
 is that so much of this was done right the first time.
 I mean, even though these guys had no idea
 where this was headed, I mean, you know, 25 years ago,
 you couldn't have imagined this,
 and even so, they laid down these fundamental protocols
 and got it right the first time.
 Now, one really cool application of this packet expiring
 is something that many people who've messed
 with networking for a while have used
 and may not have really appreciated what was going on,
 and that's called the trace route,
 because when a packet expires on its way to its destination,
 remember I said that the router where it expired,
 the router that decremented that packet's time to live
 from one down to zero, it wraps the packet
 in a little ICMP message and sends it back to the sender.
 Well, that means that the packet is being sent
 from that router, from that router's IP back to the sender.
 So the neat engineers who thought up all this stuff
 in the beginning, they said, "Hey,
 "what if we wanted to know the route
 "that our packets are taking as they go
 "from one router to the next across the internet?
 "How could we determine that?"
 Well, then what they realized was,
 "Hey, we could deliberately emit packets
 "with shorter time to lives so that on purpose,
 "they die before they get to their destination."
 So what the so-called trace route command does
 is it sends the first packet towards its destination,
 like say you were trace routing to microsoft.com.
 It would address the packet
 with the IP address of microsoft.com,
 but only set the time to live on purpose to one.
 So the first router that receives it
 decrements it to zero and goes, "Whoa,
 "this must be an old packet."
 Well, it sends a time exceeded message back to the sender
 with its IP.
 So we display that and we now know the IP
 of the first router on our path towards microsoft.
 Then we send out a packet with a time to live of two.
 Well, it goes past the first router,
 which decrements it's time to one,
 gets to the second router,
 which decrements it's time to live to zero,
 and now that sends it back to us.
 So by repeating that process
 until we finally reach microsoft.com,
 we end up with a very elegant little listing
 of every router between us and our destination.
 And of course, that's useful for all kinds of problems.
 And in fact, you can, it can be used
 for many internet diagnostics purposes.
 Okay, now the last thing I wanna cover in this part one
 is about routers.
 You know, we talked about how packets move
 from router to router.
 The question is, how do routers know where to send it to?
 And this is, I think, another one of this,
 the core bits of genius of the original designers
 of this thing, of the whole technology.
 If IPs were assigned at random
 so that any IP could belong to anyone,
 routers would have a horrible problem.
 They would literally have to have a four billion long table
 that had everybody's IP,
 and which interface, which of their interfaces
 is connected one way or another eventually to that user.
 Well, the internet wouldn't work if you had to do that.
 No, it just wouldn't work.
 So instead, the IP space,
 this 32-bit IP is inherently a hierarchical addressing system.
 Now, we're very familiar with hierarchical addressing systems
 'cause for example, that's how postal mail is routed
 around the United States.
 You know, my mailman doesn't know where Leo lives,
 but he knows where the town you live in is,
 maybe just by using zip code, for example.
 Well, and they're hierarchical, too, aren't they?
 Well, exactly.
 Mine is California or is the West Coast, I guess.
 Well, I guess it's sort of linear,
 but it certainly gives you a perfect starting point.
 And so, for example, if we think of addresses
 as in like which state in the United States,
 then which town in the state,
 and then which street in the town,
 and then which number on the street,
 there's a hierarchy of state, town, street, number,
 which is almost exactly mirrors
 the way internet protocol works.
 So for example, there might be a Laguna Hills, Florida,
 and there certainly is a Laguna Hills, California,
 because they are in different states, they're not confused.
 So the way the internet protocol works
 is very similar to this.
 When an ISP is given an allocation of IP addresses,
 it gets a certain number of sort of like high octets,
 like, for example, cable modems for a long time,
 tended to be 24 dot.
 And I think now that a lot of them are in the 68 dot and 67 dot,
 meaning that it's 24 dot x dot y dot z,
 whatever the other numbers are,
 so the idea was that a given,
 a large cable modem ISP would get all of the addresses
 that start with 24 dot.
 So what that means is that some router,
 you know, the other side of the world,
 all it has to know is that any IP address
 beginning with 24 dot is sort of in that direction.
 It just sort of, all it has to know is kind of over there.
 You know, if you imagine that it had four interfaces,
 north, south, east, west, going to other routers,
 to the north of it, to the south of it,
 to the east and the west of it,
 then its job would be to get an IP packet,
 look at the destination IP and look up in a much shorter table.
 Now it's so-called routing table.
 If it had an entry that began with 24,
 it would just say, oh, 24 dot star,
 essentially, to use the terminology of a wild card.
 Anything beginning with 24, I send west.
 And anything beginning with four, I send north.
 And anything beginning with something else,
 I said in a different direction.
 So it's actually the excruciating detail level
 is a little more complex than that,
 but that's the whole concept of routing
 that makes this whole global network function.
 Is it routing, routers talk to each other,
 which is another very complex topic,
 I think we'll probably never get to.
 You're using something called BGP,
 border gateway protocol and a couple other protocols.
 They're able to share with their neighbors
 the IPs that they know about
 and the connectedness of their other interfaces
 so that their neighbors know what packets to send to them.
 But basically, this forms a big grid of routers,
 each that only have to know when they receive a packet,
 which interface that they're connected to,
 they should send that out of
 in order to move it in the direction it's going to.
 So in our example, where we had a packet
 that was addressed to 24 dot something,
 it would march across the globe from router to router
 that is just looking at the packet going whew,
 all I have to do is worry about this 24,
 that goes out my interface number three.
 And the next router gets it and says,
 oh, for me, that's my interface number two.
 And so the packet moves until it gets to the ISP.
 The ISP then knows not necessarily
 about anything else on the internet,
 but it knows within its own network
 how to further subdivide that down,
 just like a letter that is received by the post office
 in a city, now the people in the post office
 know which carrier to stick it in,
 because they figure out a given postal carrier
 has a certain neighborhood that is all these streets.
 So similarly, once the packet gets into the ISP,
 it only has to then further segregate it
 to get it down into the neighborhood,
 further segregate it to get it down
 into a smaller block and ultimately get it
 to the destination where it's aimed at.
 - Again, very slick.
 - Yeah, I mean, and the idea that this thing,
 this system has hung together as well as it has,
 I mean, awe of the people who did this.
 - And no one contemplated, I'm sure the size and scope of it.
 I mean, it's exploded beyond anybody's wildest dreams.
 - Right, now, one of the things that has happened
 is that there are classes of networks,
 it's worth mentioning, a class A network
 is the largest type of network.
 And that would be sort of like the original concept
 I've talked about where the first byte was a location
 and the other 24 bits of the 32-bit address
 were the machine within that location's network.
 That's a class A network where you have basically
 a network of a single byte at the top
 and then 24 bits gives you 16.777 million machines
 within that.
 And there are ISPs that own, I mean, many ISPs
 actually own whole big class A networks.
 And then they further subdivide that
 within their infrastructure.
 A class B network has the top two bytes
 that specify it and then 16 bits below
 specify which machine within that network.
 And the smallest formal type network
 is a so-called class C where the top three bytes
 specify which network it is and the lower byte
 of eight bits specifies which one of 250 plus machines
 fit within its network.
 So basically by having a hierarchy of these network classes
 which have actually become a little more loose
 as the internet has evolved,
 we're able to address a packet from one location
 to another anywhere on the globe.
 And most of the time,
 when everything's working, right?
 It gets there.
 - Wow, Steve, I think we need to take a break
 and come back next week.
 - Yep, let's do that Leo.
 - I'm digesting and I don't mean lunch.
 That there's a lot to understand there,
 although I have to say it's really kind of fun to look at
 'cause it's such a beautiful, elegant system
 and it works.
 So, well, we've talked on the show before
 about vulnerabilities and there certainly
 are vulnerabilities to this system,
 but yet day in, day out, we use it.
 We don't think about it and it works.
 - Well, and it's worth also talking about redundancy.
 I've mentioned that these routers are able
 to communicate with each other in order to talk
 about what routes they're able to offer to other routers.
 One of the beauties of this rich interconnectivity
 among routers is that if a router goes down
 or it's being rebooted because it's firmware
 needs to be updated or it's being upgraded or something,
 the beauty of this system is the dialogue between routers
 allows them to determine when a router is gone
 and then they can choose a not my first choice
 but this is the only way I have of sending this packet on.
 So, the internet is also sort of self-healing.
 - There was always the kind of story,
 although it turns out not to be true
 that it was built to survive an atomic attack.
 That's not really the case.
 - No, that was sort of an apocryphal story
 that sprung up, but I suppose it would
 because it would route around big losses like that.
 - Yeah, certainly though, where our major arteries
 are located as well known, there's something called
 May West and May East, which are major interconnection points
 and if bad people want it to hurt us,
 all they have to do is knock out those two major interchanges
 and we'd be in trouble, but overall,
 the architecture, this notion of breaking everything,
 instead of having wires to everything,
 just have wires to your neighbors
 and send these little packets of data,
 granulate what you're sending into packets
 and just drop them on the network
 and have them all sort of autonomously get themselves
 to where they're going, it's just a very robust
 and a fantastic system.
 - All right, well, we'll talk next week about part two
 of how the internet works and then this is all
 kind of the foundation for a lot of the security stuff
 we're gonna talk about in weeks to come, I know.
 - Right, because for example, when we understand how it works,
 we can better understand what happens when it doesn't work
 and what attacks are possible to deliberately
 drift from work, yeah, all right, we won't tell the terrorists
 too much, David, they already know probably.
 - Yeah.
 - If you want more information about this,
 follow up on the show notes at steves website,
 grc.com/securitynow.html, of course,
 GRC is the great Gibson Research Corporation.
 Steve's the creator of Spinrite,
 the ultimate disk recovery and maintenance tool.
 I wouldn't run a machine without it.
 I have my Spinrite six disk by me at all times
 and I encourage you to do the same.
 And we do thank our friends at America online
 for providing us with the bandwidth for this show.
 We couldn't do it without them.
 You can listen to the show on their AOL podcast channel
 or of course download it through our RSS feeds as,
 I'm sure many of you do.
 We'll see you next Thursday for another fascinating edition
 of how the internet works on security now.
 Thanks Steve, my pleasure to see you next time.
 (upbeat music)
 (upbeat music)
 ♪ Security now ♪
 (upbeat music)
