 (upbeat music)
 This is "Security Now" at Steve Gibson.
 For Thursday, February 16th, 2006, episode 27,
 How Lands Work.
 (upbeat music)
 - Steve Gibson, hello Leola Port here.
 Steve's in the beautiful Irvine, California Vias.
 Actually, Google talk.
 Of course Skype wasn't working for us for some reason.
 - Yeah, let's hope this comes out okay.
 - So this is the day, a couple of days
 after Patch Tuesday, Microsoft.
 I know, because when I turned on my PC,
 it said, "You have updates."
 - Right, yeah, Microsoft released seven patches.
 Two, they marked as critical,
 and five were just important, unquote.
 We know, of course, from our coverage
 of the Windows Metafile, where we really looked carefully
 at what these designations mean.
 We know that critical technically has to be worm a bowl,
 an exploit that really could damage the internet
 on the scale of a worm getting loose,
 and anything that isn't that, they're calling important.
 So there was actually some follow-on Windows Metafile stuff,
 and something to deal with the media player
 able to be tricked into showing an image or something.
 So anyway, they're important, and anybody
 who's keeping their Windows machines up to date
 will definitely wanna take a look at that.
 - Now here's the question.
 When you have automatic updates turned on,
 will it only download the critical,
 or will it download the important as well?
 - Oh, it gets them all.
 - Okay, it does say check for important updates
 and install them, and that's what you'd wanna do,
 it sounds like, since they've kind of changed
 what critical means is you wanna get everything
 that's important.
 - Oh yeah, I mean, it blew my mind that they weren't
 considering the Windows Metafile problem,
 an important problem, or a critical problem,
 they were all only calling it important,
 so you definitely want all of the updates.
 - Given that naming, we definitely wanna get
 the important files as well.
 - Well so you're back from your cruise?
 - Yeah, thank you for Dragonfall.
 What a wonderful-- - Fallen Dragon.
 - Fallen Dragon, sorry, can never get that name right.
 That's the Peter Hamilton book that you sent me,
 and I am loving it.
 - He's a great sci-fi, good hard sci-fi.
 I had just read Stephen Baxter's Ring,
 which is very hard sci-fi, it's all about string theory.
 - Yep.
 - So this is a little breath of fresh air,
 'cause the characters are really deep and rich,
 and the worlds are very rich, he's a great writer.
 - I love his work, yeah.
 - And you just saw Firewall, now let me ask you,
 this is the new Harrison Ford movie,
 does it have any firewalls in it?
 - No.
 - Oh, rats.
 - I don't know why, I guess they use the word,
 just 'cause it's kind of a cool word.
 - It's hot right now.
 It is about banking, security, and computer networks.
 They've got sort of some quasi-believable technology in there.
 It's Hokey, you know, borrows his daughter's iPod
 to download some account numbers and things.
 He's like, "Ah, okay."
 But Leo, it's a fantastic movie, I loved it.
 I guess the critics didn't like it that much,
 but I mean, I was on the edge of my seat,
 so I know, I recommend it, it was really good.
 - And no big technical mistakes in there.
 - They sort of avoided all the technology stuff.
 There was some stuff that, you know,
 you just sort of allow it in a movie like that.
 - Yeah, yeah.
 - You know, if anyone wants to get their technology,
 I think they have to keep listening to security now.
 They're not gonna get it from a Harrison Ford movie.
 - Willing suspension of disbelief, I think.
 - It was great though.
 - So let's cover any issues from previous podcasts
 before we get into this week's subject,
 which is we've talked about how the internet works,
 now we're gonna talk about how your network,
 your home network works.
 - Yeah, we had a couple of people sort of took me to task
 on the issue of like UDP versus TCP.
 You know, I was talking about essentially how,
 what a nice protocol UDP is,
 and they were saying, hey, wait, wait a minute,
 you know, TCP is so useful.
 And just a little bit of a clarification, you know,
 like I mentioned how DNS uses UDP
 because the responsibility for getting,
 for making sure a reply comes back is the applications.
 The real way to think of UDP versus TCP
 is in terms of overhead.
 For example, a DNS query is one packet that goes to the server
 and the DNS reply is one packet that comes back.
 So the entire transaction for making a DNS query over UDP
 is just two packets.
 By comparison, if you were to use TCP to make the query,
 and in fact DNS does support TCP also,
 you'd have to send one over, you'd have to do,
 well, instead of enumerating them,
 'cause we did that last week,
 you'd have to do the TCP three-way handshake.
 So there's three packets.
 Then the query and the response, so now we're up to five,
 then two packets to shut the connection down.
 So that's seven packets to make a query over TCP,
 which you can do in two packets with DNS.
 So for the--
 >> With UDP, with DNS.
 >> I'm sorry, I'm sorry, with UDP, exactly.
 So probably the best way to characterize it is saying,
 you know, for short things or for real-time things,
 UDP makes more sense for longer persistent connections
 where you want the network underlying layers
 to worry about getting the stuff there,
 getting the packets in the right sequence
 and all the things that TCP does,
 it definitely makes more sense
 and all that work is done for you.
 >> All right.
 >> And another interesting note is some people
 have been reporting that the GRC's shields up system
 has been showing them some open ports
 that were they used to be all still.
 Well, in working back and forth with them,
 we've tracked it down to the growth
 of UPNP-aware peer-to-peer systems.
 And this is something that you and I, Leo,
 I have to say, we were ahead of this by, you know, a year
 or so, I knew that universal plug and play
 enabled in routers was gonna be a problem.
 And what's happening is the various peer-to-peer systems
 are now beginning to take advantage of that
 to open ports through people's routers
 in order to sort of solve the interconnection problem,
 but at the same time, it is lowering their security.
 So for example, the bear share and lime wire
 actually have verbiage on their sites.
 It says UPNP support can now detect enabled routers
 and automatically configure the router
 for lime wire's optimal performance, unquote.
 Even the BitSpirit, BitTorrent client,
 it says BitSpirit is a powerful and easy to use,
 BitTorrent client, it supports simultaneous downloads,
 download queue, UPNP port mapping, and NAT traversal.
 So what we're beginning to see is we're seeing
 these clients are behind people's backs
 without notifying them, reprogramming their NAT routers
 to open ports back through the router.
 That's something I mean, sure, if it's what you want
 and you know it's what's going on, then hey, that's cool.
 But what's happening is this is being done
 and people are running shields up and saying,
 "Wait a minute, why do I have ports open?"
 So this is happening behind people's backs.
 - They're being opened by these applications.
 - They're being opened by the applications
 because the routers have universal plug and play
 enabled in the router.
 - And this is what we've been warning people against
 and saying turn that off.
 Of course, it is a convenience, isn't it?
 When a line wire automatically turns it on,
 then you don't have to even think about it.
 - Well, it certainly is a convenience.
 And again, we can now expect that Trojans
 are not far away from doing this.
 - That's the problem.
 - Convenient for a line wire means convenient for Trojans.
 - So in terms of progression from a security standpoint,
 the feature was created which we quickly identified
 as a bad idea, then that the feature got used
 by good programs and we can expect shortly
 to see the feature being used by bad programs.
 - Great, great.
 - So again, it's an early heads up to people.
 - That's, yeah, wow.
 All right, so it's shields up just saying,
 "Yeah, you didn't have ports open,
 you just didn't even know it."
 - That's the problem.
 - Exactly.
 The other thing I need to talk about,
 I do want to mention briefly that Mac OS X
 has had the appearance of its first worm written for it.
 It's an eye chat propagating worm.
 It goes and enumerates all the applications
 that the user has used in the last month
 and replaces them with copies of itself
 that then links to those applications.
 So we are beginning to see as the Mac popularity increases
 and as it spreads, we're beginning to see
 some the growth of security issues over on the Mac side too.
 - Yeah, although this is, as you said,
 it's not a very serious attempt at an exploit.
 In fact, I don't think it's available in the wild.
 It's supposed to spread itself through eye chat,
 but I don't think anybody said it has.
 And in order to get infected by it,
 you would have to open, unzip the file,
 open the application, which claim to be,
 so if you're not paying attention, I guess,
 but it claimed to be pictures and there's an application,
 okay, you open it and then it asks
 for your administrator password,
 which you would have to give it.
 - Right.
 - So you have to really cooperate
 if you're gonna get infected by this thing.
 - And lastly, people are wondering
 where we stand with our promised OpenVPN how-to guides.
 That's all I'm working on right now.
 I've got OpenVPN servers running at our facility at level three.
 I've got one here.
 I just converted one of those,
 the local free BSD box to diskless operation.
 So it's running with no moving parts, no fan,
 boots off compact flash and works perfectly.
 I'm, and then just yesterday,
 I set up a Windows 2000 machine to be,
 to work out the final details of OpenVPN
 on Windows 2000 and XP as the server endpoint.
 So I wanna assure people that, you know,
 we were, we lost a month, basically,
 through the whole Windows Metafile thing in January,
 but I am back on working on the OpenVPN how-to's
 and we will do one final show to introduce those
 and talk about those once those are all up and posted,
 but they're coming.
 - All right.
 There's still a lot of interest in that.
 We haven't moved on completely from it.
 - Oh, there's a ton of interest, Leo,
 because I mean, it's OpenVPN is such a beautiful solution
 for allowing people to access networks,
 well, you know, add from a road warrior profile
 on, you know, when they're on the road and it's free.
 - Great.
 So, on to lens.
 - Yeah, we've talked of course now,
 two episodes about the, about the WAN side
 of this networking technology,
 about packets and ports and IPs,
 and then the ICMP, UDP and TCP protocols.
 I wanna, we're gonna do two episodes on LAN technology.
 Next week, of course, we've got our Mod4 Q&A episode,
 and then the one after that,
 I wanna talk about the ARP side
 of what glues IP and ethernet together,
 and specifically the security concerns for that.
 But first, I wanna lay some foundation
 with sort of like, what goes on on your LAN?
 What is a default gateway?
 What's a subnet mask?
 And how does all that work to essentially handle
 and route packets around the local area network?
 - It's been interesting to see the change that's occurred
 and used to be networking was really the province
 of one guy at the office who knew this
 and nobody else did it now.
 Everybody who has a computer at home
 is learning about subnet masks and DHCP.
 It's become part of our vocabulary.
 - Well, yeah, and of course,
 the internet technology itself is just spreading
 through the lives of everyone who's associated with it.
 Now, in the, prior to routers happening
 that is the whole personal NAT router,
 people would normally just connect their computer
 directly to whatever internet connection they have.
 Their modem would dial them into a service provider
 or if you had DSL or even a cable modem,
 you would, your computer would be connected directly to it.
 And so you'd have less contact with this sort of LAN technology
 because your machine would be part of a LAN
 that was extended to you by your provider.
 But now with NAT routers,
 which we promote so much because they're such great security,
 essentially the router is creating a network of its own.
 And so there's more of this LAN glue
 that's exposed to the user.
 The whole key to a LAN that's connected
 essentially to another network,
 to a non-directly connected network
 is this router that we've talked about.
 We saw how internet routers out on the net
 are sort of out there in the internet cloud
 moving packets closer to you.
 Well, the router that most people
 have direct interaction with now
 is their own residential NAT router.
 And so essentially what happens is you've got
 one or more machines that are all connected together
 by a hub or a switch.
 And by connected together,
 essentially it means that they're on the same network
 that they're able to address their packets
 directly to each other.
 The question though is how do they know
 that the packet is on an IP on their own network
 or that it needs to go to the router for remote routing?
 Well, that's this thing that's called a subnet mask.
 It's what the subnet mask does.
 And people who are using normal NAT routers
 will typically see the IP of their router
 will be 192.168.0.1, for example.
 That's the gateway router.
 Well, exactly, and that'll also be the IP
 that their router participates in the local area network from.
 Now, the subnet mask of that can vary,
 but for example, it's often 255.255.255.0
 or it might be 255.255.0.0.
 But either way, the idea is that the IP
 that a packet is destined for,
 that is the target IP is compared
 against this subnet mask to see if the digits
 where we've got 255s are the same
 as the machine's own IP, essentially.
 The idea being, for example, that a computer connected
 in the LAN might be 192.168.0.2, for example.
 If it's sending a packet to any IP
 with the last byte difference.
 So like .2.3.4, where the left-hand side of the IP
 has all the same numbers, 92.168.0.
 Well, it knows that because of the subnet mask,
 which is essentially specifying which IPs
 are in the local network, it's saying, okay,
 this machine is directly reachable by me.
 So it addresses the packet to that machine
 that is sending the data to directly,
 as opposed to saying, for example,
 if you were connecting to Microsoft
 and you had some completely different IP,
 4.79.something else, it would notice
 that the digits were different where the subnet mask
 was a 255.255.
 That's sort of the whole key to this.
 That tells it that this is an IP not on the local area network,
 but one that is located somewhere else.
 - So 255, if you put it in binary,
 it's maybe a little easier to understand.
 Each of these is eight bits and a 255 is all ones.
 - Correct.
 - And a zero is all zeros, eight bits of ones,
 eight bits of zero.
 So it would be 1111.111.111.0, or 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0.
 So where it's ones, that's where you pay attention,
 where it's zeros, it could be changed.
 - Exactly, so I'm glad you said that way
 because it's where it's ones, you compare your destination IP
 to your own network to see whether they match up.
 If they differ, then that says, oh,
 this is not an IP on our local area network.
 We need to send this to the gateway.
 - Maybe another way to understand it
 is that allowed addresses on the LAN,
 on the local network, are those that are not masked by ones.
 - That's another way of saying it, yes.
 - So if it's got zeros in those places,
 then that would mean that it doesn't have to always be 255
 or zero, it could be 254 or some other number, yes?
 - Well, that's actually true.
 And it does get complicated while I was trying
 to figure out how to visually describe this.
 I thought, well, if I get into networks
 where the mask is sliding to different values,
 we're really gonna get ourselves tangled up and lost.
 But for example, the 192.168,
 we've talked about this network before
 because it's been reserved
 so that it's only for use in private networks.
 Another network, for example, is the 10.network
 that we've talked about, where it's 10.anything.anything.anything.
 Well, the subnet mask for a 10.network would be 255.0.0.0,
 meaning that any IP beginning with 10
 is gonna be part of that same 10.local area network
 and then all the IPs beginning with 10,
 having anything else fall within that,
 but anything that doesn't start with a 10
 will be outside of that land.
 - So when you put a subnet mask into a router,
 you're telling the router which places are significant
 when it comes to routing versus local.
 Where to pay attention, essentially?
 - Exactly, and all of the machines on the same land
 will have the same subnet mask.
 - They have to, yeah.
 - Yes, there is an agreement among them all
 that we're all machines in a network
 that contains this block of IPs
 and doesn't contain all the other IPs.
 And so that's the key.
 It's like, is this IP in our land
 or is it not in our land?
 Now, if the IP that a packet is being addressed to
 is not in the land, all of the machines
 will send their packets to the so-called gateway machine.
 - It must be out there somewhere, so here, you take it.
 - Well, exactly, and essentially what's really interesting
 and this is what we're gonna cover in two weeks
 is a little more of the mechanics of that
 when we talk about how ether networks
 and what the address resolution protocol is.
 But the idea is that the packet is addressed
 to a remote IP, but sent to the gateway.
 So the gateway, for example, on that router
 in most people's experience will,
 it'll receive this packet, so it actually receives it.
 But when it looks at it, it says, wait a minute,
 this is addressed to an IP outside of the land.
 So that's why the router has the same subnet mask
 as all the machines do in the land.
 So it does the same comparison.
 It sees that this packet is addressed outside of its land
 and it says, oh, that means I send this out the WAN interface.
 - There's another side effect because it will also say
 how many available IP addresses you can use.
 For instance, if you have a mask of 255.255.255.0,
 it means you have a total of 255 addresses you can use
 in that network. - Yes, you lose a few.
 You lose the very last address in any land
 is the so-called broadcast address
 because by agreement, a packet addressed to that
 is actually heard by everyone on the land.
 It's a broadcast and in fact,
 there have been some early exploits
 that have taken advantage of that
 to do all kinds of wacky things with ping packets.
 And then the zero with address.
 That is the zero IP is also reserved
 as the so-called network address.
 That is the address for the whole network.
 And then so you'd have IPs one through 254.
 One of those IPs is gonna be the gateway.
 Unless you could have a land with no gateway.
 If it was just a land not connected to anything else,
 you could have a bunch of machines
 all connected just to a hub or a switch
 that are not connected to the internet.
 In which case, they wouldn't have a defined gateway
 because there's no way for them to send traffic
 outside of the land.
 - So you really effectively have 253 addresses.
 - Exactly. - Yeah.
 - And now many, there are some routers
 that will allow you to configure all of those.
 Other routers will say, "Well, no one in a residential mode
 is gonna need more than a hundred."
 And so many routers do restrict you
 to a lower number overall.
 - And then they talk about Class A, Class B, Class C networks.
 That's just how many addresses are available to that network.
 - Well, yeah, and in fact, as we talked about two episodes ago,
 the original concept of this was
 that networks would either have, would be 255.0.0.0.0,
 which is a Class A network like the whole 10.0 network is.
 Or a Class B network would be 255.255.0.0
 for their subnet mask.
 In which case, you've got 16 bits worth of machine identifiers
 down in the right-hand two bytes.
 Or a Class C network would be 255.255.255.0.
 In which case, as we just said,
 you've got essentially 255 or 256 possible addresses
 but you lose a couple of those
 to specific defined applications.
 - Ah, you know, I've been using subnet masks for so long
 and now to know what they really mean, it's so nice.
 - Well, it is an important aspect of our networking.
 Now, many people will just use,
 they'll configure their Windows or their Mac
 or their Linux client to so-called obtain an IP address
 automatically.
 And essentially what that does is when the computers turned on,
 it will send out a broadcast saying,
 hi there, I'm new in the neighborhood, literally.
 Is there a DHCP server listening
 that will hand me an IP?
 And so they're able to, knowing nothing about the network
 to broadcast this DHCP query saying,
 has this LAN got someone who can give me an IP address?
 And in the case of a residential network,
 that'll be the router that'll be turned on and waiting.
 It'll receive this broadcast because a LAN,
 and we'll be talking about this in two weeks,
 has the ability to essentially have like an all stations
 receive sort of deal.
 So not even knowing nothing about the network at all,
 whether it's a 10.192.168, I mean, or any IP,
 it's able to say, hey there, can somebody help me?
 The DHCP server or service process,
 which is running in the LAN's router or gateway,
 it will respond to that and say, hi there,
 I'm responsible for rolling out IP addresses
 and so it'll establish a dialogue with the machine
 that has broadcast the query network wide
 and said, and so it'll say, here's what you wanna use
 for your DNS servers, here's what you need
 to set your subnet mask for and here's my own IP
 to use as a gateway and here's an IP you can use
 that is unique for yourself.
 So it's the DHCP server in a network that's configured
 dynamically, which is responsible for doling out these IPs
 as machines first appear on the network.
 - And so when you set your windows box
 to obtain IP address automatically,
 that's the setting in the network settings,
 that's what it's doing, you're saying use the DHCP server
 and get a number from them.
 - Right, and as you might imagine, I mean,
 if you think about it for a second,
 since that's a broadcast and everyone on the network hears it,
 if somebody malicious were to hear that,
 they could stand in for the DHCP server
 and completely fool a machine into giving it,
 essentially trusting it as the gateway instead of the machine.
 - Now a router can still act as a gateway
 even if it doesn't do DHCP.
 You could easily set up what they call static IP addresses
 where you give each machine its own address,
 you have to make sure they don't conflict
 and turn off that DHCP functionality,
 but you'd still have routing, right?
 - Yeah, I think that most routers do give you the option
 of shutting down DHCP.
 What that means-- - Would that be more secure?
 - It would be, well, I would say yes,
 except that we're gonna see in two weeks
 how there's really no semblance of security
 on Ethernet networks at all. - That's forget it.
 - I mean, it's a disaster, Leo.
 So you wouldn't really gain anything.
 - You don't have to worry about somebody spoofing
 your DHCP router.
 - As far as I know, there are other ways
 to achieve the same things that are even more immediate
 because spoofing your DHCP would require,
 well, I mean, there are all kinds of,
 there are basically there's no security at all
 on an Ethernet network.
 - We'll talk about that in a couple of weeks.
 I know it's a broadcast network and everything.
 - Yeah, there's just no security at all.
 So the reason someone might do that, though,
 is if for their own purposes,
 they didn't want the IPs of their machines to float around.
 For example-- - Or you didn't want somebody
 to join your network promiscuously, right?
 If there's no DHCP server, they,
 oh, I guess they could, they could just--
 - Yeah, they could pick a number at random, huh?
 - Exactly, or not at random,
 but if they were able to look at the network traffic,
 they would see what range of IPs you were using
 and be able to just give themself an IP
 that's not currently in use
 and immediately be able to participate
 as a peer on the network.
 But for example, say somebody wanted their,
 like they had like teavos.
 I have a pair of teavos that are on my LAN
 and I've given them static IPs.
 Actually, I'm not using DHCP in my own network at all
 because I know what all the IPs are
 and I sort of have like my servers are 10.1.something
 and my teavos are 10.0.0.200 and 10.0.201.
 I just, you know, I sort of have my network blocked out
 in large chunks and arranged in a way that makes sense to me.
 - I've run into people working on their networks
 where it's set up statically.
 Is there an advantage to doing it?
 Is there less overhead by turning off the DHCP server?
 Is there any reason that you might want to do that?
 - I would probably have to qualify that
 as sort of the propeller head approach.
 (laughing)
 - It is 'cause you have to constantly kind of pay attention.
 You can't just give somebody an address.
 You have to make sure it's not conflicting with another one.
 - And if someone comes over to your house
 and wants to, you know, plug into your network,
 you know, certainly their machine,
 if they're normal, has been just left in the default mode
 of obtain IP address automatically.
 You know, they do that at their house.
 They come over, plug their computer into your network
 and it doesn't work.
 - That's when I got involved with this guy's network.
 I was really sorry too.
 I said, what's going on?
 And I figured, oh, you have static IP addresses and blah, blah, blah.
 So is it an advantage?
 It's not really an advantage to do it.
 - No, I really see.
 I mean, there's really nothing wrong with using DHCP.
 It's no less secure only because I hope I didn't scare people
 away by talking about like, you know, spoofing a DHCP server.
 I didn't intend to.
 It's certainly possible.
 Well, as far as I know, it isn't a common exploit
 and there are far more common exploits
 against ethernet networks, you know,
 against the LAN networks we're talking about
 than doing that that are far more effective
 and we'll be talking about that in two weeks.
 So I think DHCP makes a ton of sense.
 I'm just, you know, I'm someone who likes to know
 the IP of every machine I've got.
 - I bet you, I'm just guessing.
 Never been to your house.
 I bet you actually have a little demo label
 on each one with the IP address on it.
 - You know, I did accept that they started getting obsolete
 and the only thing worse than a machine
 that is not labeled is a machine that is mislabeled.
 'Cause, you know, 'cause for some reason
 you change the IP to something
 and now the label is referring to the wrong IP.
 - Well, I can just see all your machines
 with little addresses on every monitor.
 You knew exactly which one was which.
 - Yeah, pretty much I have them all memorized.
 - You know.
 - Yeah.
 - Okay, so there's, we've got subnet masks,
 we've got DHCP.
 - We've got the default gateway where packets are sent,
 if they don't match up with the subnet mask,
 they're sent to the gateway machine at the gateway IP,
 it receives them, it sees the same thing.
 It sees, wait a minute, this isn't part of the LAN
 because otherwise it just wouldn't do anything with it.
 It wouldn't send it on, but it sees that it doesn't match up
 with a subnet mask for the digits that are significant
 where the subnet is ones as you put it.
 And so it sends it out to the LAN.
 Similarly, when packets come into it,
 it does the same thing again.
 It receives the packet and does its NAT translation
 to translate it into an internal IP and says,
 oh, look, this does fit within the subnet mask.
 So it rebroadcasts it out of its LAN side
 so that the properly addressed machine in the LAN
 is able to pick up the packet.
 And that's how all that works.
 - It's really, it's really amazing.
 It's actually again, and I said this when we described
 how the internet works, it's really kind of a remarkable
 little thing going on behind the scenes.
 Most people don't pay attention to it,
 don't even have to.
 You just plug in your router and it pretty much
 just works out of the box.
 - It's just elegant technology.
 And of course, in terms of DHCP,
 since most ISPs use the same DHCP to assign IPs
 to their residential computers,
 the NAT router itself is a DHCP client.
 When it turns out on the LAN port going out toward the internet,
 it will say, hey, I need an IP.
 And so again, the ISP will be running
 its huge DHCP server, which is providing IPs to everybody
 plugged into its whole network.
 And so it will assign the router a unique IP
 for the WAM connection that the router has
 just in the same way that then the router turns around
 and is the DHCP server for your own local LAN.
 So the same thing is going on on both sides.
 So your router is a DHCP client for your ISP's WAN side
 and it's the DHCP server for your little residential LAN side.
 - Very cool.
 - Yeah, and I guess I could go on and on and on.
 Who knows?
 He might have a, the ISP might have his own DHCP server.
 - Yep.
 Well, there we go.
 I think that was, that's it, huh?
 There's pretty much the story of your home network, your LAN.
 - Yes, it's the first chapter.
 We're going to talk about the ARP side
 and the lack of ethernet security in two weeks
 since next week is our Q&A episode.
 - So part two on episode 29, but 28.
 - What, what can go wrong?
 - What can go wrong with this elegant solution
 that seems so good at the time.
 Steve Gibson, always a pleasure.
 I learned so much from every one of these
 and I know that many schools and universities
 are using them in their classrooms now
 and lots of people like the transcripts too.
 You can get those from Steve's website, grc.com/securitynow.html.
 You'll find 16 kilobit versions for the bandwidth impaired.
 Transcripts of every show, thanks to Elaine.
 And of course, Steve's show notes,
 often with diagrams and further information and links.
 And that's a good place to go too.
 If you ever have hard drive woes
 because Spinnwright is Steve's day job,
 although I don't know,
 he's spending so much time with security now.
 It might be your late night job.
 I don't know when you find time to do it.
 Spinnwright is the ultimate disc recovery
 and maintenance utility.
 I've been using it for years.
 Version six is just out and just fantastic.
 In fact, our neighbor boy came over,
 Steve and came over a couple of days ago
 and said, "System's acting flaky."
 And I said, "Son, I hope you don't mind Steve.
 Take this Spinnwright and use it."
 (laughing)
 I felt like such a...
 - You have an implicit site license later.
 - Well, I get it back from him, don't worry.
 He won't have it.
 But I'm hoping it will recover his system, I'm sure.
 If anything can, it will.
 It's a wonderful program.
 Everybody should have.
 Does it for lots of people every day?
 - G-R-C.com, Steve.
 Enjoy the beautiful Southern California weather.
 While we're frying, they're freezing back east.
 But that's the way of the world, I'm afraid.
 - Yeah, this time of year.
 - We'll see you next week, next Thursday,
 as our, we'll be in Toronto.
 We'll be doing our every four weeks questions and answers.
 Do people have a place to go on your site
 where they can ask questions?
 - Oh, I am just swamped with questions.
 - We don't need more.
 At the bottom of the security now at HTM page
 is a form that people can submit questions through.
 - Great, and we do appreciate them.
 They help us, well, they help us a lot guiding the show
 and the content of the show as well as.
 - It gives me a lot of feedback.
 I, you know, we had just great response
 from these first two episodes.
 Sort of our technology foundation series
 that we're doing now.
 And we've got a few more things to cover.
 And it's looking good.
 - Great.
 Thanks to our friends at AOL Radio
 for broadcasting this on their podcast channel.
 Of course, we're providing us with the bandwidth
 so that you can listen to security now each
 and every week, absolutely free,
 whether it's on iTunes or with iPod or X or iPod or Lemon
 or whatever client you use.
 We're glad you're listening.
 We'll see you next time.
 On security now, take care, Steve.
 - Thank you.
 ♪ Security now ♪
