 This is "Security Now" with Steve Gibson, episode 28 for Thursday, February 23, 2006.
 Our listener questions and answers, number 4.
 Steve Gibson, hello.
 Hey Leo.
 Good to be with you face-to-face again.
 Have a lovely lunch in the beautiful Rogers cafeteria.
 And you had your traditional dual ham sandwiches.
 My meal for the day.
 You're preparing for a big security now.
 We decided every fourth episode unless there's some burning issue to answer questions.
 Right.
 And that's great because we get a lot of them.
 Our Mod 4 episode.
 Yeah, there were a few issues that we, a couple things from last week that I want to deal with.
 Actually from the last Q&A, a couple people, more than a couple actually, many people thought
 that I sort of sidesteped one of the questions we answered four weeks ago about which is the
 most secure operating system.
 I sort of summed it up, I guess.
 And I think I can understand where they would feel that I had sort of wimped out on it.
 Well Windows is getting better.
 Yeah.
 Was sort of the way I...
 It was accurate.
 Yeah, it certainly is accurate.
 One of the things that I did a little bit of research because I was sort of curious.
 In fact, the US cert, the United States computer emergency readiness team, they did a, or published
 a rather controversial report recently that showed that in 2005, Windows and Windows apps
 had 812 security flaws.
 Whereas Unix, Linux, and its packages had 2328, like almost three times more.
 One of the problems is that in this period, in the last, I guess it's what, three years,
 Linux code has gone from two million lines to six million lines.
 And we all know that change is the enemy of security.
 Whenever you're cranking out lots of new code, there's a chance for some problem.
 Well, I'm going to save you a lot more emails, Steve, because there's another issue, which
 is that Microsoft has relied upon for releasing its security flaws, but the Linux community
 is a much larger community with a lot more people working on the code because it's open source.
 So you'd expect to see many more flaws discovered.
 Furthermore, it's not merely those 8 million lines of code that's in Linux.
 There are thousands of other programs that are part of most Linux distributions that are often
 included in those security bullets as well.
 And certainly we're included in this case.
 So you're right.
 So it's a problem of apples and oranges comparison.
 And people often do this with Firefox and Explorer, too.
 I think counting the number of exploits is not a way of discovering whether one is more
 secure than the other.
 In fact, you could make a very good case that that would mean Linux is more secure because
 the exploits have been discovered and patched.
 Of course.
 So it's 2328 fewer vulnerabilities now.
 Isn't that what you're looking at?
 Isn't that what you're looking at?
 Is how many vulnerabilities still exist, not how many have been discovered?
 Yeah, the point I wanted to make, basically, to sort of get some conclusion to this question.
 I mean, it is to say that security is a process more than it is a product.
 I think it's the case that the Mac OS, because if it's long-term networking heritage coming
 from Unix, is all things considered more secure as a platform, as a user-friendly commercial
 platform than Windows or any of the open source solutions.
 So if someone wants a simple result, I would say the Mac OS is going to give the average
 user much more security than Windows.
 But I wouldn't say that the Mac is the most secure version of Unix either.
 I mean, there are far more secure versions of Unix.
 But it's tightly bolted down, intentionally made secure.
 And in fact, there is some evidence that Apple has not maybe patched as many of the older
 programs as they should have.
 They've kept up, in fact, with a code base.
 But I agree with you, if you're looking for a consumer operating system, you're not going
 to use secure BSD as your consumer operating system.
 Right.
 Also, it's certainly the case, too, that it's possible for a user to run Windows in a very
 secure way or run Unix, Linux, or Mac in an insecure way.
 So again, it's not just the OS or the applications you're using, but it's what you do with it
 and how you manage your system.
 Are you opening every attachment that you receive in email?
 That'll get you on a Mac as easily as it will.
 Well, not quite as easily as it will.
 Actually, it won't because there aren't any exploits.
 And that's part of the issue, too, is how many exploits are there out there?
 And they're certainly far more.
 At the target of opportunity.
 Right.
 Yep.
 So I think that's why I didn't call you on it last time, is I didn't feel like you were
 fudging, I feel like there was no really correct answer.
 And you said the right thing, which is Windows is getting better.
 Exactly.
 Exactly.
 But so for those of us who want to you to say Mac, we just have to live with it.
 We just want to have Red, Green, or Blue.
 Yeah.
 The other comment from last week's episode where we talked about how LAN technology works.
 I talked about the DHCP dynamic host configuration protocol that assigns IPs automatically.
 And we briefly discussed that versus static IPs.
 A number of people chimed in with very good instances where static IP assignment was valuable.
 Certainly, for example, if you've got network printers where different machines need to
 know what IP address the printer's going to have, you can't have it getting its IP automatically
 if that would mean that it would have its IP floating around.
 Right.
 And the other, the very good example is if you've got your consumer router doing port forwarding,
 it's going to be forwarding ports to an IP.
 So again, you want to make sure that your computer is there at that IP.
 The cool thing is you can have DHCP and static IPs coexisting with no trouble at all.
 So normally in your router config, it'll show first IP that's available for it to assign
 and last IP, or sometimes it's first IP and how many it can assign.
 So that creates a block which is normally smaller than the size of the subnet.
 So for example, if you had a, and we talked about the subnet mask thing also, if you had
 a subnet mask which most routers do of 255, 255, 255, 0, it means you've got 253 available
 IPs, most routers will only assign 100 typically out of that range, giving you plenty of room
 to put, to give machines and printers a fixed IP that you don't have to worry about floating around.
 Yeah.
 I think some of this is just that some of these technologies just haven't caught up with
 the DHCP world, I mean eventually you should have zero configs so you don't need to know
 what printer IP address you have, that port forwarding should be kind of more automatic
 and the printers will be discoverable by the machines on the network no matter what their
 IP is.
 They just haven't caught up with it.
 Right.
 The automated world we live in.
 Shall we get to the questions?
 Let's do it.
 David from the United Kingdom has one for you and actually as we pointed out before that often
 these represent many people who have asked the same question were just picking on David.
 Right and in fact when I'm going through them I'll see one that keeps coming up and it's
 like okay a bunch of people have you know it's like this is something I want to address.
 Exactly.
 My question is about what Shield's Up shows me when I'm using hotspot VPN.
 Normally my home PC appears totally stealthy, that's good all green lights.
 Yep.
 However when I use hotspot VPN Shield's Up shows the SSH, DNS and HTTPS ports open.
 Are these ports from my machine or from hotspot VPN?
 Is the VPN tunneling ports through my firewall and opening up my PC to attack?
 What's the deal?
 Great question.
 The one thing that I would ask anybody to first look at when they're checking things
 out with Shield's Up is what IP are we showing because at the top of any Shield's Up page
 I post the IP which is the IP that our servers are actually probing.
 So when you're using hotspot VPN we will certainly be probing not the IP of your machine but
 the public IP through which hotspot emerges onto the internet.
 Any of the machines behind and that are using hotspot VPN will have a 10 dot IP range.
 The hotspot guy allocates IPs for all of their clients in the 10 dot range.
 So it's 10 dot something dot something dot something.
 I tend to get like 10 dot 250 dot 0 dot 22 whenever I'm using hotspot VPN.
 So because that's a private IP no one outside is able to probe that.
 There isn't a way for me to access any sort of private 10 dot IP address.
 Now it is the case that a VPN tunnel could tunnel everything through to the machine but
 in this case the hotspot guy is running a NAT system and so it's network address translation
 which is translating the public IP into the 10 dot IP.
 So the bottom line is all we're able to test and any hacker is able to see is the machine
 run by hotspot where the private addresses emerge onto the internet.
 So it's definitely not your machine and you've got all the protection of any NAT router.
 In fact you might even have more because you're using VPN as well.
 Yes.
 I think this is related chat rights from his Yahoo account.
 I tried your suggestion of using the tour onion router network that's an anonymizer to
 anonymize my connection for free but when I run the shields up port scanner it shows
 I have several ports open and the rest show is closed.
 Nothing is stealth.
 I'm behind a NAT router.
 I should be all stealth.
 What's going on?
 Right now you're right.
 This is sort of a related question and again we've seen a lot of this that the tour system
 is an interesting anonymizing system that we've talked about where you make a connection
 to a so called an onion router this and and T O R is an acronym for the onion router.
 It then makes a connection to another one which makes a connection to another one and
 they deliberately don't keep any logs of who they've connected to so that after a few hops
 you emerge on the internet from that final router.
 Once again if you look at the IP that shields up is is testing it'll be the IP of that last
 router.
 So that's where we're seeing your connection to GRC coming from so that's what I test.
 So again it's not your machine at all in this case it's not a VPN it's just sort of a chain
 link of routers and we're only seeing the final emergence at the last router.
 So gang stop using VPNs and when you want to run shields up you're not testing it.
 That's a very good point shields up will will only be testing the the status of the machine
 that you're entering the internet from which in these cases is never your own machine.
 It's an interesting exercise but it's nothing useful the result.
 Jan asks according to my to audit my PC which is one of these websites you go to where they
 scare you.
 These people are able to acquire the private IP address via a JavaScript.
 They're shocking is this true I ran an IP a check on my machine and found out that the
 internal IP they showed me was correct.
 If it is true and not some sort of trick it's a little disconcerting any suggestions on how
 to prevent such an acquisition.
 Yeah I'm glad you said that the site that tries to scare you because I mean obviously
 you know about audit my PC I get this question so much they're in the business of selling
 you security so they're trying to raise your fear factor a little bit.
 Well they they really are succeeding in this case and in this case they're really kind
 of fudging it because well it okay yes for first of all what's happening to answer Jan's
 question is that JavaScript is running on the on her browser and that JavaScript which
 is basically scripting code downloaded by written by and downloaded by audit my PC is
 running in her browser and reporting back to them information from inside her network.
 You know the other famous instance of this is where you go to a website and they show
 you the contents of your hard drive it's because they're just your browser that's on
 your computer is showing you your hard drive they can't see it exactly so you know it's
 one of these these things it's a client side program which means it has client side information
 so that means audit my PC doesn't know your IP your internal IP address well no it means
 they do but that's the second part of this question Jan has nothing to worry about with
 them knowing her IP is 192.168.0.1 about a million people have that IP because that's
 a private IP given to her by her router so anyone can and does see the public IP that
 for example that's what shields up tests when you go to shields up hey if you find any website
 it knows your IP they have to because that's the way they get the traffic back to you back
 routed across the internet back to your your location but all of this stuff that shows
 you the contents of your hard drive or that says oh we know what your private IP is well
 being the fact that you have a private IP means that you're that you're secure because
 you're behind a router so that information does them no good nor does it do any you know
 anyone with malicious intent any good although I have to say it's it's doesn't seem like
 a flaw in JavaScript that it can discover that kind of information yeah I don't think
 it should be there's no yeah I think there's any compelling reason why it should be a
 case the whole client side scripting thing of course is a double-edged sword is that
 gives you lots of functionality but boy at us at a security cost Maxwell whom you call
 an avid listener what he listens twice avidly we have we have people who listen to who who
 write to us and say they listen two or three times to some of our more you know dense propeller
 head ones you have to he says I want to secure a securely share files within my own home I
 have a cable modem and a router with a wired PC and a wireless laptop how can I safely
 and securely use Windows file sharing he's worried that if he turns file sharing on and
 we've we used to say this all the time oh don't turn on file sharing it's insecure in
 your trouble is that still a problem they the wisdom has changed because not routers
 happened consumer routers protect you from things going on within your local area network
 and provide really good security so long as you remember to turn off if you don't need
 it the universal plug and play feature which we've mentioned many times does represent
 a security problem that the so so the concern about Windows file sharing being used pervasively
 in a home isn't something that that anyone needs to worry about side the route except
 he also has wireless and so the addition of wireless means that he needs to go back
 to our earlier episodes talking about WPA and web encryption basically how to make your
 wireless system safe if he uses that technology if you make sure that he's using WPA encryption
 with a really long password he's safe and he can use Windows file sharing with no concern
 at all which makes me think now when we were talking about static IP addresses if you turn
 off the DHCP in your router are you no longer protected by that if you're using static
 IP addresses no you still have that you the only real the only real difference with no
 DHCP is that you'll have to manually assign IPs to all of your equipment but it doesn't
 turn the router into a hub it's still routing it's still right because those those IPs
 are still private they're still 192.168 and so you have to have that whole public private
 translation going on so as long as you have a router you don't have to worry about file
 sharing now if you were on a router if you were just on a hub or somehow otherwise getting
 on the internet with all your systems that could be a potential problem yes the router
 is the thing that protects you from having a concern with Windows file sharing because
 it gives you private IP addresses Dean and Cochran Alberta Canada says my question is
 with regards to Hamachi and UDP Humachi you may remember is that great VPN solution that
 we mentioned the peer-to-peer VPN allows you essentially to set up a LAN a local area network
 with people anywhere in the on the internet right my understanding is that UDP which is
 the protocol that Hamachi uses is less reliable than TCP and you mentioned the TCP is preferred
 for consistent connections is it true that Hamachi uses UDP and if so is it smart enough
 to handle dropped packets properly does open VPN use TCP or UDP okay good question actually
 we did talk about this we well we we did but this is sort of an interesting flavor of that
 the idea is first of all to answer the last question first open VPN can run either and
 UDP is a is a preferred technology for any kind of VPN because it allows you to tunnel
 any protocol that is TCP or UDP in a good way over UDP Hamachi because it was written
 by a guy who really does you know Alex Pankarov really does understand this stuff it uses
 UDP it is it's able to use it well because if you have a TCP connection which needs reliability
 when TCP says hey I dropped a packet send me another one well it's able to issue that
 request within a UDP packet you can't issue the request within a TCP packet because TCP
 gives you connections instead of packets which you really want our packets so Hamachi is doing
 the best possible thing which is to use UDP and open VPNs preferred means of operating
 is also to use UDP so everybody's got it covered the point is I guess don't confuse the tunnel
 right with what's the traffic in the tunnel right so you build a tunnel let's say it's
 the the the channel tunnel the channel you build a tunnel the carrier the carrier with
 UDP because that's the right protocol but doesn't mean you can't have reliable connections
 inside it that can still be TCP and and all of the issues along with exactly benefits
 along with it birtless arch of redford michigan asks the recent revelation of security issues
 with Google's search across computers desktop search feature we haven't really talked about
 that we should address that leads me to wonder whether the built-in windows directory and
 file encryption security is a sound way of keeping private files private would this solve
 that problem of having my personal files copied to other computers let's just mention that
 this new feature that was built into the google desktop search allows you to search not only
 your local computer but other computers and in order to for google to be able to do that
 it has to store the contents effectively the index of what's in your computers on its own
 servers right which is caused huge security security concerns and and privacy concerns
 and electronic frontier foundation is pointing out that perhaps a police warrant would allow
 them to then go to google and say give us the contents of this fellow's computer and
 they'd have it because you turned on this search across computers features so the EFF anyway
 is recommending that you turn that off do you agree no i absolutely agree and and it's
 it's unfortunate sometimes google's got great ideas but they seem to go a little too far
 i think they just didn't think about what it meant you know they assume they know they were
 rushing remembered the same thing they were they were going to speed up everyone's connection
 by cashing the internet for you right and they would cause all kinds of problems because
 people's passwords and and we're being cast you would end up seeing other people's pages
 by mistake oops so google turned that off at about a day they still do that search across
 that and in in the response to birds question windows protection file or folder or whatever
 kind of encryption would not help him because it's unencrypted when you log exactly basically
 it's storing it encrypted but any view of it that that the computer or the user or the
 network sees it sees it after it's been decrypted on its way out of the file or out of the drive
 or directory so if google can search it it's in it can see it right so you should worry
 about that now if you had another program like true secure what you've talked about encrypting
 it if you left it encrypted you'd be safe but the minute you unlocked it same problem
 exactly exactly another listener asks i recently purchased a piece of software called folder
 lock does something of the same thing in an attempt to secure my portable usb device
 but i've already been able to bypass the security measures and implements hmm are there any
 hmm are there any good portable security programs for usb drives well we're going to do an
 entire episode on true crypt because it's a fantastic solution for this it's open source
 and free and they've really just they've nailed the the solution so so let's just say for now
 not to preempt ourselves that take a look at true crypt anybody who's interested in encrypting
 folders files usb drives it handles that stuff and does a beautiful job it's going to be what
 we end up recommending that's really remarkable george walker in tulsa oklohoma is interested
 in general security and the working of the world wide web and email system i hope you
 listen to our last two episodes because we talked a lot about the internet what happens
 once the data leaves my personal network for example how secure and private is my data
 when it's sent over the internet and through my internet service provider what does my
 ISP know and see about my usage can my ISP see my emails having an encrypted wireless
 home network is great but isn't it pointless once it gets to my ISP and beyond when anyone
 can see the data that's a great question and unfortunately the answer is yes that's why
 they called wept wired equivalent privacy they didn't say it's private they said it's the
 same privacy is wired right yeah very the idea with the issues we've discussed like locking
 down a wireless network or or using a VPN when when you're in a hotspot or in hotel we're
 trying to secure the high risk the highest risk zone and keep somebody from being able
 to exploit that but it's absolutely true that that even if you have an encrypted wireless
 network at home when it when it leaves your wireless router the router is decrypting it
 to send it out to your ISP so your email is in the clear and of course this has been a
 great concern recently with you know all the US NSA spying and that there have been so
 subpoena issued to to grab people's email ISPs have unencrypted email on their email servers
 that's the way the internet works by default email is not encrypted just like web pages
 are stored in in web caches by default unencrypted so I mean it it is the case that the use of
 the internet's standard protocols is not encrypted and is only secure as those people who you
 are trusting to tend it and if you did have an ISP that was really misbehaving they could
 be spying on their own users well not even just an ISP but it also has to hop from server
 to server to get out to the where it's going and anybody on that server who was untrustworthy
 could also snoop right right it's like sending a postcard you trust the mailman's not reading
 it and the volume of mail is such that probably he's not but there's always that risk and you
 put more sensitive stuff in an envelope in an envelope not on a postcard that's why I use
 PGP now I also use fast mail which is an independent email company and I use SSL to fast mail so
 my ISP can't see my mail but fast mail can see my mail right somebody's got a store that
 stuff ultimately because the because email was never really defined as an encrypted technology
 sooner or later it's going to be decrypted in order to go public has to must use PGP point
 point and then only your recipient can read right Karen Wilson of myriad of George asks
 with a VPN what happens to the initial can a virtual public private network what happens
 to the initial connection I make with my wireless card in a hotel once I've established a VPN
 I have a sharing of folders turned on when I'm at work and hardwired into my network my
 works land are they visible to others in the hotel when I'm using the VPN correct a great
 question the answer is she is safe the the initial connection establishes the tunnel and
 no and this is really important this is just like with SSL where where you are creating
 a secure connection to a remote web server that connection creates a tunnel it is it is
 brought up and encryption is activated before any user application data first moves through
 it so she could be totally comfortable using a VPN in a hotel to connect into her work
 computer or work network even though it's got windows file sharing enabled there's no leakage
 through the VPN now when I first log in to my hotels what network wireless network I have
 to give it a password I mean that's kind of part of the deal with a just like just like
 it's like everybody does who's going to use who use the hotel network right at that point
 and I'm not encrypted I haven't turned on my VPN yet correct so she would be vulnerable
 for that brief period if she had folders file sharing turned on yes oh I think she said
 that she had them on her work machine so she's safe okay yeah so so so she said but you're
 right while your traffic is not going through the VPN you are you're not protected by the
 VPN so I get I get to the hotel I log on to the hotels network and then I launch hotspot
 VPN I'm protected from now on but there is that brief period of time when I'm not protected
 right the idea would be you would probably be using a personal firewall on your laptop
 if you're a telecommuter that would provide you the protection then the VPN tunnel would
 pierce the firewall outbound go go go to your work that way at no point are you at danger
 I'm gonna turn on my firewall a wireless Tivo user writes episode 13 convinced me to switch
 from web which we've pointed out is broken broke to WPA which we point out works and
 it's the best way to protect a wireless network yep thank you he says my wife and I are using
 max tiger so the switch was relatively painless I did however have a follow-up question is
 there any way to continue using devices like the Tivo and others that unfortunately only
 support web I'm willing to connect Tivo by wire but I was curious is there any bridging
 technology that won't compromise my network security the we've the questions come up
 before and I've thought about it a lot the only solution that make sense that I can that
 I could recommend would be to get an older wireless access point and use to rigid into
 the network exactly you need to have a you need to have a central access point I'm sorry
 a central router on whatever connection to the internet and then you'd have a WPA access
 point and a WEP access point basically you you'd be running two wireless networks one
 is secure and one is not secure and it's only minorly not secure because you could still
 run web on that one you could you absolutely could run web button if you wanted to but
 and the other advantage is to crack your Tivo data exactly the idea would be you could
 just think of your your unsecured wireless as you know anyone could have access to it
 you might want to turn off the SSID broadcasting and you you you could use Mac filtering but
 the advantage then is if people come over with a wireless laptop they're able to use
 your your unsecured network and you're able to keep your WPA just to yourself now if I
 do that and so I allow them on my unsecured wireless network the wireless access point
 getting into my secured network is preventing them access to my secured network right that's
 acting as a firewall between my my friends who I don't trust apparently and and my network
 right it turns out that that something we have not covered yet but we're going to very
 soon as soon as we get back to our our fundamental technology series our spoofing is a real
 problem for lands and we'll be talking about why lands are just not secure so it turns
 out there's no safe way to have two wireless access points plugged into each other they
 need to be plugged into a third router in a in a wide configuration that's safe because
 ARP never crosses across routers and so so you you get you get protection from spoofing
 if you really wanted to have the best security you need you need you need a wide configuration
 we mentioned that before we'll talk about our poisoning in the in greater detail and
 this time I do have pictures oh good yeah too bad it's a radio am I on John McFarland
 yeah Portland Oregon he wonders regarding tunneling and VPNs wouldn't using a tunnel
 for email web surfing peer-to-peer file sharing so on bypass any filtering content management
 port blocking firewalling and then the other controls that a corporate or ISP bandwidth
 provider has set up to regulate the network's usage for example I'll give you an example
 it's very common some ISP block a bit torrent right so would use using tunneling allow it
 completely bypass all of that alright yes there there's if your ISP doesn't allow this
 or if you're your corporate network I mean now I got to say last time we talked about
 this all kinds of people got pissed off and it's like hey we're not saying to do it we're
 just talking about the technology we're warning you that it's possible that your employees
 could be doing that exactly tunneling technology means that the content in the tunnel is not
 filterable it's it looks like literally it looks like noise it's been it's been encrypted
 and anything correctly encrypted looks like just like static it is you can't tell the
 difference between it and random noise because they're they are random numbers and that's
 exactly why Brahm is a bit towards proposing and and encryption as part of the protocol
 so that in order to prevent ISPs from snooze from snooping on their users yeah Philip Hanson
 of Wilmington Delaware writes last week you talked about how DHCP servers provide IP
 addresses but you also said they provide the computers DNS server address oh oh what's
 a DNS server okay we're gonna keep this simple we only have a few minutes left we're gonna
 keep this simple the crew is coming back I thought it was an interesting question because
 I mean a lot of people will know what a DNS server is but I wanted to answer Philip's question
 well people know I think kind of practically kind of what it does but I don't know if people
 really know what it is well and we're not going to do the whole deep the hierarchy of
 the domain name service basically though Philip what this does is it's the thing that converts
 the human style readable internet addresses GRC dot com GRC dot com Microsoft dot com
 Google dot com whatever those are actually each one of those is also represented by one
 of those internet dotted quad you know like for example GRC dot com 4 dot I can't oh 79
 dot 1 4 2 dot 200 if you put into your browser 4 dot 79 dot 200 dot I'm sorry dot 70 say
 I can't even remember myself but I never forget your C dot com that's the beauty of it yep
 so that's what it is as directory information you may not remember Steve's phone number but
 you know his name you call directory information they match it up with a number ultimately that's
 what the browser needs though to surf to that address well and your whole computer for further
 for other purposes so it does make sense the DHCP is giving it not only its IP address
 and the various other networking parameters but also a server that it can use to look
 up the IP addresses of all the other places you want to go on the net basically fills out
 that form for you that you'd have to do by hand if you didn't have DHCP Craig in the
 uk asks in your first how the internet works episode you explained that packets might be
 lost but never explained how or why that could happen if most packets make it across the
 internet the internet why is it that some don't good question it's if you ever watched
 a dripping faucet most of the drips go in the same place but every so often you get this
 bizarre one that just kind of somehow it lands on the on the other side of the sink it's
 like wait a minute you know you might spend a lot of time watching driven faucets chaos
 theory actually and the internet is like that the idea is that even though over the course
 or over the whole internet there's a whole bunch of averaging going out pretty predictable
 yes it is it's very predictable and generally works you do have little sort of like little
 tsunamis on on routers where suddenly everything will will will pile up a router doesn't have
 tons of buffering basically the package are coming in and it's sending them out as soon
 as it can but since it's got a bunch of connections if if a bunch of packets came all into it
 from three inputs and only and they all wanted to go to the one output for example out the
 same path there there just isn't a way that it's able to take and and and and cram three
 times the data out one output so what the router does is just it shrugs and it says oh well
 it sends what it can and it drops the others and the chances are just sending it again will
 not cause that same brief collision of not having enough bandwidth for just that instant
 so that's how packets get lost it's just it just little little bitty times when there
 just isn't enough bandwidth on specific linkages next week steve's going to explain where those
 socks go when you dry them and you only get one back finally burtless arch from redford
 michigan asks I was just wondering where you guys frequent the net as your favorite
 sources of tech information good question where do you do you like browse around on the net
 and look for information you know I don't you know I I put your very goal oriented when
 you go on the net you know what you're looking at exactly I am mr. Google you're not a browser
 I know exactly exactly I know exactly what I want my I my Google is set to my home page
 I just come up with a phrase and it's just amazing how quickly I can find what I want
 so I'm not in a mode where I'm like looking for more stuff I'm I'm really looking for answers
 to the problems I've already got I do because that's kind of my job I do kind of surf quite
 a bit and I have I use a news reader and in fact I'll I'll tell you what I'll put my OPML
 file up if you want to see what links I use that's easiest way to do it you can import
 it into any news aggregator and about sixty different pages I go to wow you well I don't
 see that because that's why an aggregator is nice you don't have to actually go to those
 individual pages it just loads them the headlines for you and you can look and scan through
 them but for security information I think security focus comm is a very good place and
 it's certainly a site that if you wanted to know more about security on an ongoing basis
 we worth visiting they have a number of newsletters you can subscribe to in a lot of different
 areas of security so that if anything big does happen you'll be alerted by push you
 know you don't have to go to that site right there's the bug track mailing list also is
 another good mailing list where security exploits are quickly revealed yeah it's funny I mean
 what the way I work I'll Google for what I want then I'll see security focus or bug
 track or or one of the sites I know really well it's like oh good now I've got the page
 I can trust it too exactly so so you bring your your knowledge of those sites to the
 result of the search in order to sort of win it down some there there are lots of great
 sites out there I'll tell you what I will start a for those of you who are donors to
 the this Twitter TV I will start a thread in our message boards we have new private message
 boards have you joined those message boards yeah I am okay I'm a member I'll put a thread
 in there I figured out it was too complicated he's a use net type I will put a thread in
 there but where do you where do you go because we'd like to hear from you where you go to
 find out more information not only about security but bet text topics subjects in general and
 I will also put the OPML up in the show notes on Twitter TV we're out of time they've turned
 the lights back on in the studio the camera crews back fortunately the Olympics hockey
 is keeping them busy so we don't have to worry for a few minutes but I think we better wrap
 this thing up we're done anyway we're done any all the questions are done well done next
 week what are we going to cover next week we're going to talk about um land insecurity we talked
 about how lands work so next week is how how how IP and ethernet are joined together by by
 this address resolution protocol ARP and unfortunately why since security was never even a consideration
 back when this was designed why it's so frighteningly insecure hmm that'll be great next week so cool
 technology with with a real security overtone that's March 2nd security now we invite you
 of course to visit steve's website grc.com/securitynow.html that's where you'll find the transcripts the
 16 kilobit version for the bandwidth impaired and of course it's where you can read all the
 show notes as well steve is the author of the fabulous spin right disc maintenance and recovery
 utility I wouldn't leave home without it in fact I have it in my brief my suitcase I literally don't
 leave home without it and if you have a hard drive that you want to keep an eye on or if you just
 you know have something you're losing maybe some files that you want to recover this is the way
 someone wrote an amazing letter to us a couple of days ago I love to see those good like you
 know someone who just desperately needed something and they didn't know what to do and they rants
 been right and just it's fun to hear them describe how they just they can't believe when they reboot
 their machine after running spin right it's back yeah it's really neat that's grc.com for spin
 right of course the show notes and we thank our friends at al radio for broadcasting the show on
 their podcast channel and providing the bandwidth so that we can give you security now every week
 al music dot com twit.tv is the headquarters for the entire twit network if you like what you hear
 please feel free to click those donation buttons and of course everybody who donates whether it's a
 dollar or a hundred gets access to the twit forms and uh and other cool stuff which we're still
 trying to work on we'll find something for them we'll see you next week thank you Steve have a
 safe trip home always a pleasure good to see you in the flesh this time yeah that's we'll see you
 so to speak I close back on though for the show this is security now we'll see you later
