 bandwidth for security now is provided by AOL radio at AOL.com/podcasting.
 This is Security Now with Steve Gibson, episode 38 for May 4th, 2006, browser security.
 Security Now is brought to you by a Starrow, makers of the Starrow Security Gateway, on
 the web at www.ASTARO.com.
 So finally the sun is shining in beautiful California, summer or at least spring finally
 arrived, and look Steve Gibson is wearing a tank top and shorts.
 But it's dry in Toronto, Leo, chapped, I was all like chapped after one day.
 I am and you know they complain in Toronto that it's too humid because they have the
 lake effect, but I guess it gets humid some other time because chapped is the word exactly.
 My cheeks are bright red and my face was all like tight feeling, it's like that, what's
 going on?
 Yeah, we're just wusses down here in California.
 When you have a perfect climate, oh no, I shouldn't rub it in, we have listeners all
 over the world, many of whom actually live in perfect climates, so I won't bug them.
 And those of you who don't, you already know.
 So our topic today is something I think that near and dear to everybody's heart, no matter
 who you are, you use a browser and it seems that browsers are one of two really prime
 vectors for security flaws, the other being email.
 Yeah, I think probably maybe browsers more than anything because the design of browsing
 on the web, the way it's evolved is part of the problem, whereas you could argue that
 email viruses were sort of a side effect of email security problems.
 I mean, the idea, for example, that Microsoft's design for ActiveX was to allow a website
 that you visited on purpose to download what is basically a DLL and run it just by visiting
 the page without any asking for permission or anything.
 I mean, things have tightened up since this was originally created in this original concept,
 but that was the idea.
 So one of the things that I want to draw, a very clear distinction between our problems
 due to policy versus problems due to mistakes.
 And I mean, this has sort of been a long running theme because, for example, over in a different
 era, you know, over in Windows with open ports, my argument with Microsoft was that they were
 running servers and services that were opening ports in Windows by policy.
 I mean, they were delivered, they deliberately had file sharing running.
 They deliberately had DCOM and RPC and all these ports open, not mistakenly, but on purpose.
 And it was not until they finally got the clue and had the XPS firewall running by default
 in service pack two, that those open ports were then hidden behind the firewall.
 So they were essentially closed to the outside world.
 So, you know, anyone can make a mistake.
 And of course, Microsoft is famous for making mistakes, but it was the fact that they had
 this policy that essentially exposed their mistakes to the world.
 And this is very much the same problem we see over on the browser side.
 So it really goes hand in hand, I guess you could claim that the policy was a mistake,
 but it was such a global mistake that we're still suffering years later and it makes it
 difficult to fix.
 Whereas a security hole, you can usually patch and fix and it goes away.
 Well, let's, okay, so exactly.
 Let's stand back now a little bit and, you know, sort of like turn back the clock and
 remember that the original concept of the web were static, unchanging, HTML, you know,
 text pages that that browsers would would download from the server and those pages would
 then go fetch other images, which would populate the page if it was, you know, a graphic web
 browser, you know, and that was the, that was Tim Berners-Lee of, you know, original concept
 for the web was, you know, these, this distributed database called the internet of servers that
 would serve pages and then these pages would be linked to each other.
 And so people could click on links to go to other pages, but, you know, the page itself
 was just, you know, just static, it was, it was a textual read-only page that the users
 would browse and then they'd click on links to go to something else.
 Actually, I think Tim and his original conception wanted them to be editable, but you're right.
 I mean, very quickly became just these static pages.
 I think his original plan was to have pages be collaborated on and of course the immediate
 security issues that became obvious and everybody said, oh no, maybe they better just be static.
 Well, we didn't have collaboration technology.
 Maybe the idea was like to FTP to the original, believe it or not, the original web browser
 that he wrote on the next box, that was the idea he wanted other physicists to be able
 to modify pages and collaborate on documents.
 But you're right.
 I mean, that wasn't that never left certain, I don't think.
 Right.
 Well, and in fact, the, you know, the, the original concept was, was from the server to
 the browser only and, and the, the addition of the, of forms that allowed, that allowed
 web pages to send information back, you know, you can tell by the, by the nature of the
 way it was implemented was it was kind of a cluge that was stuck on afterwards, you know,
 the, the get and the putting all that exactly where, where, where, for example, you, you
 make a query to the server and then you, you put a question mark in the URL and then, and
 then show the parameters right there, which is, you know, how most search systems work
 today where you're able to create a URL, which contains the search parameters in the, in the
 link text, this whole notion of getting data back to the server was sort of an afterthought
 and not something that was, that was originally conceived.
 So, so moving forward, um, I don't, I'm not clear on the timing of where Netscape was
 with their, with their scripting and where Microsoft was, you know, Microsoft tried to
 give us, you know, VB script, um, in the browsers, um, but then ultimately Microsoft came along
 and said, Hey, let's, you know, let's not limit users to running, um, JavaScript in browsers.
 We want this to be more powerful, more, you know, feature packed.
 So we're, so they took this whole notion of, of Olay, which is their object linking and
 embedding technology, which is sort of been limping along for a number of years and somewhere
 along the way, they renamed it, it's the same thing.
 They just renamed it Active X because that sounds fancy, you know, sort of like DirectX
 and Xbox and all that.
 And what Active X is, is it's just a DLL, you know, a compiled program, which in the
 case of a browser application is able to download this code into the user's system and, and
 run it.
 And I mean, it's, it's very powerful, but of course it's horribly insecure.
 I think you can blame Microsoft for this because the original scripting implementation by, by
 Netscape, which later became JavaScript really wasn't very powerful.
 I mean, the browser could do things, but it couldn't, it couldn't actively access your
 computer, your hard drive.
 It couldn't, it wasn't really a full blown programming language.
 It wasn't until Microsoft came along, but you really had that.
 Right.
 Right.
 Well, and then of course was, was by design and, and in fact, we know that the related
 language Java itself, we were a real Java, it, it, from, from day one, it was created
 with the notion of a sandbox that is a, an enclosure.
 And so Java code, what was also the idea was you would be able to, to download Java code
 and have a so-called Java runtime, which would interpret the code so that you weren't actually
 running object code on the processor.
 You were, you were running in an interpreted environment that could constrain what the,
 what Java was able to do.
 And that's still the case today.
 I mean, they're malicious Java applets, but nothing on the order of the active X applets.
 Well, exactly.
 And so, so, so the distinction here to draw is that, that sun and Netscape, who, who did
 Java and JavaScript, mean, they always understood the need for constraint around what it was
 that a, that a remote web server would be able to give the user Microsoft didn't mean Microsoft
 said, wow, this will be really powerful.
 If we allow websites to download code, I mean, this is object code.
 This is unrestrained code that can do anything on the user's machine.
 And anything, any other program could do.
 And of course, this, the success of Microsoft's approach was that everybody immediately started
 using active X and said, forget Java, forget JavaScript, look how much more we can do with
 active X.
 Well, and, and in fact, the, the classic example of the exploitation of this is the user experience
 of getting spyware installed on their machine or various kinds of malware just by visiting
 a website.
 You know, how many people, you know, were having problems with, with Gator and, and with weird
 search of sort of third party search things that, so suddenly just appeared in their browser.
 They didn't do anything to install them.
 They didn't give permission.
 They, they, they didn't do, they, you know, just were out surfing around the web and were
 picking up this stuff because they were using IE, which was leveraging this active X technology,
 which is, you know, very powerful.
 I mean, it, it, it's the way Flash is able to provide, you know, very, you know, sophisticated
 animations and, and, and substantial power is through this whole active X plug-in system
 that Microsoft has, but, but the problem is it was not designed with any sort of restraint
 built in.
 Now, of course, Flash works without active X, but is Flash as dangerous as, as active scripting
 and active X?
 Well, Flash can do a lot with your system, but it's more sandbox, I think.
 Yes.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Well, and what can you describe a little bit about what active scripting, which is this
 former VBS script that you, you talked about, and, and active X, the difference between
 the two and the, and the different capabilities of the two.
 Well, the idea in any kind of a, in any kind of a scripting mode, whether it's, you know,
 VBS script that's active script or, or, um, JavaScript, which was the, the, what Netscape
 scripting language ended up being named, even though it really bears no relation to the Java
 language itself.
 Just a clever marketing play on that.
 Exactly.
 Exactly.
 That's sort of like the cool acronym about what eight or nine years ago.
 Any of these scripting things, the idea is that, that the textual content of the page
 is itself within sort of some, some specified constraints on the page is code, which is
 read by your browser and executed.
 And so, you know, many things are, are made possible.
 I mean, the, the, the, the, the positive side benefit of scripting is that pages can be
 intelligent themselves.
 For example, you could, you could fill in a, a zip code and the page would know what
 state that was in.
 So it would populate the state field for you if it knew, because it could, in the page,
 it could have code that knew the zip code ranges by state and just filled that in for
 you.
 And.
 Although it would be good here to kind of make the distinction between, between server
 side scripting and, and client side scripting.
 So when you visit, for instance, this week in tech.com or, or many pages, including your
 own page, Steve, because you use server side scripts, programs are running on the server.
 And oftentimes those zip code programs are running on the server, but you can also have
 code that runs on my computer as a visitor.
 And that would be JavaScript or active script, or, or active X. Those are, those are running
 on my side that I think that's a really good distinction to make.
 For example, you know, my own shields up facility is its code running on the server.
 And all I'm delivering to the user, despite the fact that they're getting a customized
 page showing which ports they have open and closed, all I'm delivering is absolutely generic
 HTML, you know, like dead code, or dead, dead text that the, that the browser renders.
 That's really important.
 There's really no security implications on a server side script, at least not to you,
 to me running the server there might be, but, but well, the user's point of view, it's safe.
 Right.
 Server side, as it sounds, is, is code running on the server, not on the client, not on the
 user's browser, so it's, it's client side code, or, or browser side code, which is where
 we have problems because in that model, the, the page that's delivered that contains textual
 content also contains, contains interpreted script, meaning that, that it is literally,
 it's code that you can, you know, if you view the source of the page and, you know, focus
 your eyes after looking at what some of this gobbledygook looks like, I mean, it is actual
 code which your browser reads and runs there on your computer.
 And, I mean, and again, that's where many of these cool features that we're used to seeing
 now on, on modern websites come from is, is, well, I mean, for example, many of the menu
 navigation systems where you float your mouse around and things pop up and, and open and
 you're able to, to have a really nice navigational experience, that's done because you've got
 a bunch of code running in your browser right there without needing to go back and get updates
 and new stuff from the server all the time.
 So it's, it's very real time, it's very, it's very quick to operate and even somebody over
 a slow modem, once they get that code loaded into their browser, then that page is able
 to do all this stuff locally by itself.
 And of course, the, the disadvantage of that is security because we're constantly running
 across problems.
 Now these are not policy problems, these are like implementation problems.
 And so that's the distinction I want to make is that, you know, in general, it's, it's
 scary to accept code from a remote server, whether it's script code or even worse, an
 active X object that could be is literally running native, native code with no restraint
 at all.
 And you really need to trust the source of, of, of, of active X because it's, you know,
 you're literally running code that you've just received from the server.
 In the, in the scripting side, there, there is a, there's been an attempt to constrain
 what the scripts can do, but, but here we have the problem of, of mistakes being made.
 In fact, you may have just, may have heard recently Leo, there was a remote code execution
 vulnerability found in Firefox, you know, Firefox is, is a, is a browser that I know
 you prefer because it's due to its policies, it's substantially more secure than IE, for
 example, not running active X controls that we've been talking about by, by default.
 But still even so, these, these mistakes in the code still create vulnerabilities that
 people find from time to time and are able to exploit.
 And there's, in fact, there's exploit code on the net now for this Firefox vulnerability.
 So far it's not running code, but it'll crash your browser if you just click this link because
 it, it takes advantage of a, of a coding error in the scripting stuff.
 Yeah, and, and that really is kind of a leak in the, in the way that Firefox was designed
 so that this stuff leaks into the actual application Firefox and then does things.
 Well, in fact, what we're going to talk about next week in detail is what are buffer overruns
 because anyone who's involved in security is, I mean, even very peripherally as a user
 who's concerned is hearing buffer overrun, buffer overrun, buffer overrun all the time.
 That's like the, you know, it's the golden goose for, for the malicious hacker.
 And I want to talk in detail about what exactly a buffer overrun is, what is it that's overrun,
 how does that, why does it seem to be such a problem to control and, and why is it like
 the continual vector for all the problems people are having, but, but again, that's different.
 That sets, that's taking advantage of, or exploiting a secure, a flaw, flaw in the programming.
 And the stuff we're talking about today is stuff that actually takes advantage of something
 that was intentionally done in right in the, in the browser.
 This is, as you say, a policy mistake, not a programming mistake.
 Right.
 I mean, in, in general, the idea of, of accepting code, whether it's script code or it's an
 actual executable file, which is what active X is, you know, the idea of accepting code
 is dangerous.
 And so it's, it's an unfortunate fact of modern life using the web that in order to have the
 kind of experience that, that many websites want to give their visitors code is, is, and
 the risk of code is, is what comes along with that territory.
 Sure.
 Well, if you're thinking about it, creating a, a web based antivirus is pretty difficult
 to do unless the program can run on your system and can access your hard drive and examine
 your files.
 And you mean, like, you mean like a web based, like a scanner, yeah, like how it's cool.
 In fact, I, I understand they've been trying to write a Java version of house call, but
 I haven't seen it yet.
 And I think it's because it's very, very difficult to do.
 Well, it's probably hard to get out of the Java sandbox onto the machine and, and you
 know, something like go to my PC, a browser based remote access system.
 I mean, that's a very powerful concept, but there your browser is the, is the client,
 which is, is running code on your machine in order to provide substantial features.
 So, you know, in every case, we, we have this trade off between the power to do what we
 want to do and the inherent lack of security that using that power brings along.
 Now, Microsoft did something interesting in IE, which, which, as you know, Leo, I take
 great advantage of and that's this notion of zones.
 They have, they have, you know, security setting controls like all browsers do for things you
 want to turn on and turn off.
 But what Microsoft's done in, in, in order to try to prevent, to, to create some sort
 of control around this otherwise arguably too powerful facility called active X is they've
 created this notion of security zones.
 You have, if, if a, if a, if a web domain like grc.com or microsoft.com or Twit or whatever
 is not otherwise defined as like good or bad, it's the, it's in the default internet zone,
 meaning that it's treated just like any other site on the internet.
 So you're able.
 So your settings that you have a set to, to general settings are applied to all of those
 sites.
 Exactly.
 Whatever your security setting is for that.
 Exactly.
 And, and so the way, the way I actually surf the net is I've got my internet zone cranked
 to the highest security possible in IE.
 What that does is it basically just, everything, it, yes, it does.
 It shuts down everything.
 I will not run scripting of any sort.
 I will, I will not run active X controls.
 Basically, you know, nothing is working.
 Just out of curiosity, what percentage of sites you go to with those settings work?
 About 99%.
 Really?
 It's really the case, Leo, that a lot of sites, I mean, some of them aren't as fancy
 as they might be, you know, well designed sites know when you're not running their script.
 And so they'll like fall back to something that still works.
 One advantage is that I don't have flash ads, you know, jumping around, flying across
 the screen, you know, running through their animation cycle because, because flash doesn't
 run if, if security is cranked all the way up.
 So most sites will work.
 But there are, I mean, like for example, I can use Amazon, because Amazon doesn't use
 client side technology.
 It's all of its stuff is server side.
 So they're just providing, you know, static pages to, to browsers.
 I think eBay also works just fine.
 You know, many things do work with security cranked all the way up.
 But every so often, you'll run across a site that does need security.
 For example, many times when I'm doing e-commerce, if I have some e-commerce, I'm, they're using
 script to do something like, you know, populate forms for you where, like, for example, you'll
 have a shipping, a shipping address and a, and a billing address.
 And so you'll fill the shipping in first and then you'll click a button to say the shipping
 and the billing are the same.
 And like that.
 And when you do that.
 It fills in the form.
 Yeah.
 Exactly.
 That's what's happening on the client side.
 Usually JavaScript when that happens.
 Well, exactly.
 And it won't work if, if, if, for example, if, if in IE, if the security is set all the
 way to the max.
 But, and there are other things like windows update that won't work, or, or the virus,
 they won't work either.
 So, absolutely.
 Broad range of stuff that doesn't work.
 What happens then?
 So, so what I do is there IE has not only the default zone, which is the so-called internet
 zone, but it's got this notion of, of, of a trusted zone.
 So you can, you can have separate and completely different security settings for the trusted
 zone.
 And then you're able to buy URL, you're able to put any sites that you, that you trust
 not to hurt you into your trusted zone.
 So, for example, I've got in there is, is star.microsoft.com, star. you know, e-commerce
 r-us.com, you know, whatever sites that, that I've decided essentially to lower my security
 for.
 And that uses the certificates, right, for identity.
 So you don't have to worry about somebody spoofing that.
 Well, what if you got a phishing email and they spoofed Microsoft.com?
 That's certainly a concern, you, um, the, the browser, I'm not sure what there is.
 It must be a certificate.
 You know, I'm sure it's not Leo because it's just the address.
 It's just the URL.
 So, so, so the browser knows if it pulls the domain name and then, and then is, has, has
 looked up using DNS, looked up the IP, I guess, on there, I think it would be difficult to
 fake that.
 Yeah.
 I mean, I'm not, I'm not going to say it's not possible, but in general, I think it's
 done very pretty securely.
 So it would take a certain man in the middle thing to do that.
 So, so essentially what this does is it allows you to have different security settings when
 you're just roaming about the internet, which is where you want very high security.
 And then for the sites that you visit from time to time, you have, you know, that you
 trust, you have security that has been lowered if it turns out that you need to.
 And so, I mean, it's really, frankly, it's the optimal way to be secure on the internet
 is to have to be running nothing.
 I mean, no JavaScript, nothing, you know, many times when, when these alerts come out,
 their workarounds until patches are available is turn off scripting.
 Well, I've already got mine turned off.
 I mean, it's off for all the sites that that I don't already know I care about and I either
 need to or I want to to enable those advanced features.
 So I mean, I'm, I'm a real fan of this approach and if you do do it, you're very secure.
 I'm a little more cynical.
 I would say this is just Microsoft's way of deferring responsibility.
 Now they can say, well, if you get bid, it's only because you didn't use security properly.
 Well, I would say, I would bet 99% of internet explorer users don't even know they have this
 capability, let alone use it.
 Right.
 It's built in to, you know, versions of IE for the last three or four major versions.
 It's certainly been in five and as in six now and in fact works better in service pack
 too.
 They've beefed up the locals.
 They changed how the local zone is handled to be even more secure.
 So in theory, it's a good idea.
 I mean, do you think this solves the issue, this solves the security problem?
 Well, it, it, certainly it transfers responsibility to the user, which is a burdensome thing to
 do.
 My point exactly.
 Yeah.
 I mean, it, it, it does, but, but the, the, certainly the, okay, the, the best possible
 solution would be that you would never have a website that would try to give you a malicious
 active ex control and that the scripting technology would have no workarounds or mistakes or glitches
 that, that malicious websites could take advantage of in order to get control of your browser.
 Unfortunately, neither of those are anything that a security conscious user could rely
 on.
 And in fact, if you've got code, you've, you've got insecurity.
 You're just going to, this is never going to happen.
 Well, and yeah, and, and it's not really fair to blame the browser because I mean, look
 at all the problems we have just with the OS itself.
 I mean, so, so I guess my point is that the reason the browser is a focus point is it's
 out there on the front line.
 I mean, you're literally, when you click a link, you are sending your browser off to
 somewhere, it has never been before.
 Maybe you've never been before and it's like, good luck across your fingers.
 Hope you're okay.
 Hold your breath.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 I mean, you know, in, in, in reality, I mean, that, that analogy is fun.
 But of course, what you're really doing when you click the link is you're, you were asking
 a server, Lord knows where to send you a blob of stuff which your browser running on your
 computer.
 This is even more scary as, I mean, it's, it's the actual truth of what's happening is you're
 saying, you know, let, you know, let me have it.
 And so this blob of code comes down into your computer and your browser says, okay, here
 we go.
 And you know, you know, you know, with the best of intentions that in good faith, it starts
 reading this page, displaying things and running scripts, which may be included in that code.
 And you know, who knows what's going to happen?
 I mean, it, and so it's not that the, that the browser is worse code than any other code
 we have.
 It's just that, you know, it's the front line.
 It's right out there as you surf the net getting pounded with, with, with the, the stuff from
 any websites that you visit.
 So from my way of thinking, I want my shields up.
 I mean, I don't want, yeah, I want my shields up while I'm out poking around.
 The net.
 And so nothing ever infects me.
 I'm, I'm, when I'm going to sites, I haven't been before, you know, mostly they work.
 If I decide that, okay, I want a better relationship with this site, you know, I'm an E vitamins
 dot com or something and I decide, okay, I want, I want to buy some stuff.
 Well, then I will go over and I will put star dot E vitamins dot com into my trusted sites
 list because this is like a real legitimate site, but I've been able to sort of, I've
 been able to interview it first.
 I went there with my shields up.
 I poked around if, if I decide I don't want to go there, then, then, you know, it's had
 no chance to affect me in any way because my browser won't do anything for this website.
 That's a good way to do it.
 Yeah.
 I mean, it, it, again, it is a, it's more burdensome for the user because, you know, your, your
 shields are up by default and then you lower them only where you need to.
 So it, it, you know, it's proven to be a fantastic way to work for me.
 And again, as you say, Leo, unfortunately, there's, there's this substantial power in
 IE, but most people don't understand it or know what it's about.
 Right.
 Hey, I want to give you a little bit of credit.
 You won't get the credit probably elsewhere, but you deserve it.
 It was not so many years ago that you banged the gong about raw sockets in Windows XP.
 And of course, about a year ago, Microsoft finally disabled that raw socket capability.
 And one of the reasons you didn't like raw sockets is it made that possible for any, anybody
 who co-opted an XP computer to spoof their attacks, to use the raw sockets capability
 to put a random non-existent IP address in the packet that they were sending out.
 Right.
 There is a project going on and just saw this on slash dot called the spoofer project that's
 attempting to measure how many spoof, how many ISPs or providers of any kind allow spoofing
 to occur.
 As you've pointed out, it, all it takes is a little bit of due diligence on the part of
 the internet service provider and spoof packets aren't really a problem.
 And apparently, according to the spoofer project, they've only done a few thousand measurements.
 About 80% of the IP addresses they've measured don't support spoofing anymore.
 The ISPs have sat up, taken note and prevented IP address spoofing.
 Very nice.
 That's really good news.
 And I think you deserve credit for it because I don't think anybody would have thought
 of this as a security issue would have known about it if you hadn't raised a ruckus about
 raw sockets those years ago.
 Well, the big problem, of course, are not individual and users who are doing this, but
 they're people whose computers are affected by these remote control IRC bots.
 We're not worried about Granny using raw sockets, but we're worried about her computer being
 used by a bad guy and Russell.
 Exactly.
 And then attacks being launched from her computer and having the advantage of raw sockets means
 that it's easier to produce a denial of service attack on other machines, which is virtually
 impossible.
 I mean, practically impossible to trace back.
 So I was really, yeah, I was really glad to see that Microsoft finally woke up with service
 pack two and removed raw sockets.
 And it's very cool that slashed us doing this.
 I had a plan that I never got back to.
 The idea was going to be a little gizmo called spooferino was my piece of freeware that I
 was going to do.
 How people to determine for themselves whether their ISP allowed spoofing outbound, that,
 of course, became much more difficult once XP service pack two happened because it would
 be much harder to generate such a packet.
 So because I can run as root on my OS 10 system and Linux users can as well.
 In fact, you can even do this on Windows if you run this little software.
 It's actually not a slash that they have the story, but it's from MIT.
 It's called the spoofer project spoofer.csil.mit.edu I'll put a link in the show notes.
 But I think what's encouraging whether you run it or not is that so many ISPs have heard
 the call and are blocking spoofed packets.
 Well, and I think they don't want to be hosts for these bots either.
 And so if they block it, I mean, it's so easy for an ISP to know if the apparent source
 IP of a packet that's leaving their network could have originated in their network.
 I mean, is it one of their IPs or not?
 And if it's not, just drop it.
 And so suddenly, no machines in their network within their entire network can be used to
 generate spoofed attacks and they stop being a useful source for those bots.
 So one little small victory anyway, that's many more battles to fight.
 Next week, we'll talk about really a bigger battle.
 You can talk about securing your browser and you could talk about better security policies
 from operating system companies.
 But one thing we'll never be rid of is bugs and we'll talk about common for overruns.
 Buffer overruns.
 This is the big one.
 How they happen and what they mean and why they're so darn hard to fix and to prevent.
 Yep.
 And as you know, but security is important to us.
 That's why we are very happy to have a Staro Corporation as our partner on this podcast.
 They're a great sponsor at ASTARO.com.
 Make sure you check out the Staro security gateway, a free software for home users.
 They can run to protect yourself and of course, for businesses and people like me who want
 to be extra careful and extra extra protected for a very reasonable cost.
 The open source, a Staro gateway is really the way to go.
 I love my 120.
 I'm really happy I've got it.
 So Steve, we'll be back next week talking about browser and buffer overflows, all those
 nasty bugs.
 I hope you have a wonderful week and enjoy the sunshine.
 Talk to you then, Leo, next Thursday at security now.
