 (upbeat music)
 This is "Security Now" with Steve Gibson,
 episode 30 for March 9th, 2006, cryptographic issues.
 (upbeat music)
 - Steve Gibson, good afternoon to you.
 - Hey Leo.
 - We're here and today we begin a series on something
 I think everybody wants to know more about cryptography.
 - Yeah.
 - This is gonna be exciting.
 Today we're gonna cover cryptographic issues,
 societal issues and so forth,
 but over the next three or four episodes, a lot more,
 including how it works fundamentally.
 Any issues we wanna cover from previous episodes
 before we dig in?
 - No, I think we're pretty clear to start.
 I wanna, I'm excited about this.
 I know that a lot of people are interested in,
 in what cryptography is that sort of on the technical side,
 how it works, you know, what are public keys
 and private keys and certificate authorities
 and signing chains and all of that.
 And so in the, over the next few weeks,
 I wanna really, I wanna take our time,
 explain this stuff very clearly
 so that we've created a real foundation of understanding
 how these basic technologies inter relate with each other.
 And then of course, they're all about
 how we're using the internet today,
 open VPN that we've talked about
 for remote secure access, user certificates.
 We know that secure web browsing, user certificates.
 You know, like, you know, what does that mean?
 What does a signing authority?
 And I mean, really, how does this stuff work?
 And I think what's surprising is it can be explained
 in a way where people are gonna go, wow, I get that.
 I mean, they're gonna come away with an understanding of it.
 But before we really got into the technology side,
 I wanted to talk this week about, you know,
 sort of the kind of the ethics of crypto
 because something has happened that is significant
 just in the last decade or so.
 And that is that end users, just regular people,
 have, thanks to the academic community,
 really getting involved in crypto,
 have acquired access to free, simple, usable technology,
 which no government, I mean, not their own government,
 no one else's government, no corporations, no one can crack.
 - Now, this is no accident because in fact,
 Phil Zimmerman of PGP,
 which was really the first, you know,
 widely accessible public key cryptography,
 did have an agenda.
 He wanted to create a strong cryptography
 that the masses could use.
 Not just, I mean, political dissidents,
 in fact, it's widely used by them,
 people who are in fear of their life,
 but also here in the United States
 who didn't want a government eavesdropping on them.
 - Well, of course, yeah, PGP stands for pretty good privacy,
 which I always appreciated that acronym
 because, I mean, it is way more than pretty good.
 - It's a little self-deprecating unnecessarily,
 so it's strong crypto.
 - If you use it, it's all you ever need privacy.
 You know, and it's interesting too,
 because, you know, of course,
 there's been all this controversy
 in the United States recently
 about this warrantless NSA surveillance
 of US citizens, where, you know, post 9/11,
 the George W. Bush administration took it upon themselves
 to change the way they got permission
 for basically eavesdropping on US citizens
 and doing so-called warrantless surveillance,
 meaning that, you know, they wanted the right
 and have taken the right to eavesdrop
 on any conversations, which basically,
 which they wanted to be in the interest of United States
 national security.
 - Well, and that's what's changed
 since Phil came up with PGP.
 This is, you know, his, all his work was pre 9/11.
 Well, it's changed a lot since 9/11.
 However you feel about this,
 there certainly is a legitimate cause for concern.
 The terrorists are now capable of hiding their tracks
 by using widely available crypto.
 I mean, if there was a news story recently
 that said Skype, which is secure,
 could be used for making phone calls
 without any possibility of wiretapping.
 - Yeah, well, it's interesting too,
 because, you know, there are the people who say,
 hey, I don't care if the government wants to listen
 to what I do, to my phone calls,
 to my internet access and so forth, you know,
 and their argument is, I'm not doing anything wrong,
 so I have nothing to hide.
 And, you know, and they argue that, hey,
 if you're not doing anything wrong,
 what are you worried about?
 And at the same time, we know that there are
 commercial interests that would apparently
 like to know what we're doing with our computers.
 You know, I mean, I guess corporate espionage
 is a real thing.
 And so you could imagine executives in a corporation
 spread out over the internet wanting to hold
 a teleconference where they absolutely are sure
 that nobody, no, from a corporate espionage standpoint,
 nobody can listen in on their conversations.
 - Right, and this is where it gets dicey.
 I mean, there is, you know, we're balancing
 public interest and public safety with a right to privacy
 and a right to free expression.
 So it's, you know, it's not for you or me
 to decide about this, but certainly we should talk about
 the issues that are raised.
 - Well, and, you know, you were talking about how,
 okay, terrorists could use cryptographic voip
 like Skype apparently provides in order to,
 in order to have conversations in plain sight,
 so to speak, that no one is able to decrypt.
 At the same time, there's, you know,
 and we would all agree that that's like a bad thing.
 We don't want people plotting against the health
 and welfare of citizens of other countries, you know,
 in their midst and being able to do so, you know,
 but you also, man, I'm not suggesting
 that that's a good thing by any means,
 but if that weren't available, wouldn't these bad people,
 these bad actors find some other means for communicating?
 - Perhaps, perhaps, you know.
 - I've asked Phil Zimmerman this point blank specifically,
 and he says you got to take the good with the bad.
 And in his opinion, well, first of all,
 the scriptographies out there, it's probably too late
 to even debate this.
 - The horses have left the bar.
 - Yeah, and it had a long time ago,
 even when the United States was trying to classify
 as munitions and prevent it from being exported,
 it was there, it was out.
 So maybe it's a moot conversation.
 - So the argument there being that, you know,
 it's sort of like guns, I guess, you know, it's like--
 - Bad guys have them anyway, so.
 - Exactly, even if it's illegal, bad guys will still use it
 by breaking the law in order to use it to hide their actions.
 - Right, right, precisely.
 It's there, it's out there, you can argue back and forth,
 but the fact is everybody has access to it.
 I use it all the time.
 I sign every email I send with a PGP cryptographic string.
 It's not encrypted, but the email is signed
 so that you know it came from me
 and that it hasn't been modified.
 - And that's for authentication of the stuff you send.
 - That's a very valuable sign.
 And, you know, we're talking about open VPN.
 Well, an open VPN connection, the type that,
 and I'm still working on the guides,
 that's coming along so people are gonna get that,
 but an open VPN connection cannot be cracked by anybody.
 I mean, no government will be able to eavesdrop
 on the traffic over the open VPN connection.
 Now, we're doing it because we don't want script kitties
 and hackers and malicious people who are snooping
 on the internet to have access to our traffic.
 And so the question will be, I guess is then,
 well, should the government have a back door
 to these kinds of technologies?
 - No, let me think about that for a second.
 No.
 And the reason is because while the government's benign now,
 we can't always be assured of that.
 And we know that the PGP is used by dissidents
 in fear of their lives in many totalitarian governments.
 In fact, that's why Phil created it, he says,
 is for countries where you couldn't speak freely
 and you needed this.
 - So, well, of course, I guess there was that whole
 clipper chip during the Clinton administration
 where clipper was going to be a federally mandated
 and approved technology that would specifically have
 a back door that would allow citizens,
 unquote, to communicate with relative security,
 but anything the government needed to decrypt
 that was clipper encrypted, they'd be able to access.
 - Ah, yeah, and of course that went down in flames.
 - It died big time, nobody wanted that kind of technology.
 - Now, that was pre-9/11, as I remember.
 So I wonder what the climate is today.
 - Yeah, let me ask you, do we know for sure
 that there aren't governmental back doors?
 For instance, Skype isn't saying
 whether there's a governmental back door.
 They're not asserting that there is not.
 - Actually, they sort of imply,
 and this is what makes me nervous about it,
 they sort of imply that they will cooperate
 with anyone that they need to.
 Also, you'll note that you may have
 an encrypted Skype connection to Skype,
 but when you use Skype out, for example,
 to transit on to the public telephone system
 in order to use the Skype service
 to bridge into the normal audio telephony world,
 you're decrypted, which means that Skype
 has to be able to decrypt your encrypted connection themselves.
 I mean, I have to tell you Leo,
 I've actually been, for a while I was thinking
 about writing my own VOIP system from scratch,
 then it turns out that the Skype that we're using right now
 and upgrading equipment and things rendered that unnecessary,
 but I've been considering maybe doing
 a little VOIP encryption tool myself
 just because it would be nice to be able to have
 a conversation, I mean, not that I have anything to hide,
 but it's just, it's creepy thinking
 that you might be listened in on
 and you'd like to know that that's not happening.
 - Well, now this puts you in the hot seat.
 What about terrorists using it, Steve?
 - Well, I mean, that's the double-edged sword.
 You could argue that people have a valid reason
 for having a private conversation.
 I mean, and the US Constitution is all about this.
 I mean, there's protections in the way
 the United States was formed
 because the people who wrote the Constitution
 came from an oppressive government
 that didn't have these kinds of protections.
 And, you know, we're seeing a lot of erosion
 of those kinds of civil liberties.
 I mean, I don't mean to get this all political,
 but I mean, 'cause it's about technology,
 but, you know, it's always the case
 that technology and the evolution of technology
 creates these sorts of dilemmas.
 - Absolutely, and this is right on the hot border
 between politics and technology right now.
 So these things do need to be addressed.
 Sounds like you come down, and I think I agree with you
 strongly on the side of freely available crypto.
 It does make it really hard for police agencies,
 and I don't know what the answer is to that.
 I really don't.
 - Well, you know, my feeling has always been
 the one lesson we learn and we see over and over
 is you cannot legislate against technology.
 You know, technology is a force of nature.
 I mean, it's, I mean, literally it is,
 but it's something you can't say,
 oh, this exists, but we don't want you to use it
 or to do it.
 I mean, well, sorry, but it exists.
 And so we're going to.
 And you raised a really interesting point
 that I think is a great topic for this first podcast
 on crypto, and that is how do we know
 the government can't listen in on things?
 We ought to talk about it now,
 and then we'll talk about the math
 and the way this stuff works in following weeks.
 But what is so cool about contemporary cryptography
 is that there is no hocus pocus.
 There is nothing unknown about the way it works.
 We're not requiring, you know, any sort of like,
 you know, remember the classic cartoon
 where there's a blackboard and a professor
 is jotting down all this super fancy formulas
 and equations and things and gets the whole board filled
 and he's sort of like, it looks like he runs into
 a dead end or something and gets stuck.
 And so he says, so he writes down the blackboard,
 dot, dot, dot, and then a miracle happens.
 He equals MC squared, amazing.
 Exactly.
 And so what's so cool about modern cryptography
 is that we know exactly how it works
 and we know why it cannot be cracked.
 Now, there are some assumptions that crypto is based on.
 For example, it's based on some crypto,
 very popular crypto is on the incredible difficulty
 of factoring because no one has ever been able
 to figure out a way to factor really big numbers fast.
 So if a big number is the product of two primes,
 it's very difficult to find those two primes
 and those in fact end up being the keys.
 Is that correct?
 You use two really large prime numbers
 and you multiply them.
 So now you've got basically a number twice as long
 as either of those.
 And it turns out that it is just mathematically
 incredibly difficult.
 I mean, and the beauty is now all these academicians,
 super powerful mathematicians who we have to presume
 are as good as anyone, the NSA
 or any other government's security agencies have
 cannot come up with a way of reversing that process.
 So in general, crypto is about some so-called one way functions
 things that are easy to do in one direction
 that you just, you can't undo that
 in any reasonable amount of time.
 Now, and so the beauty is that the strength of the crypto
 is solely the infeasibility of mathematically doing something
 and everybody in the world has pounded on it,
 trying to come up with a way to like test it
 and see if there's a way of beating it.
 So we can presume that unless there's like,
 for example, the NSA actually did have some means
 for reversing this process that no one believes they have
 and they're probably really pissed off right now
 that they don't have some way of doing that,
 then crypto is secure.
 - I just, I can't help but think that there's somebody
 listening to this deep within the recesses of Fort Meade.
 - Giggling. - Giggling, smiling
 a big grin saying, well, I'll let you don't know.
 - We're kind of looking at his buddy
 and the other cubicle giving him a thumbs up.
 - Do you think, I mean, there really is no evidence
 that this has ever been solved and it would be,
 it's mathematically would be a big deal.
 - Well, it would, yes, it would basically,
 the prime factorization problem is the foundation
 of one class of crypto.
 It's the way a lot of our public key technology works
 that we'll be explaining in detail in a couple of weeks.
 So that would just collapse if this prime factorization
 problem were solved.
 - It's not that it can't be done,
 it's just that it takes such a long time
 that it's not feasible.
 - Well, it's that no shortcuts have been found.
 - Right, right. - And again, that we know of.
 - Well, exactly, no shortcuts have been found
 that anyone knows of and only very clever approaches
 that still involve lots of brute force processing
 is the only way that people have been able to deal with this.
 So for example, people have, you know,
 cryptographers have said, okay, the problem is this hard.
 So the NSA would have to have or a government agency,
 like with government level funding.
 - The Soviets. - The Soviets.
 - Yeah, exactly.
 Well, they would have to have a computer
 that was able to do this much work in this much time
 that would be this big that would cost this much in,
 you know, in 1990 and it would cost this much in 2000
 and this much in 2010.
 So I mean, there are, you know, the crypto people
 have like got curves and charts that show the rate
 of processing growth against all the best methods known
 of cracking this stuff and saying, you know,
 that that means that a key of this length is this secure,
 that it would take a machine of this much power,
 you know, this many centuries in order to crack the key,
 knowing everything we know now,
 and then they extrapolate into the future,
 the rate of processing growth and so forth,
 in order to say, okay, nobody is gonna figure out
 your credit card number.
 - I suppose, although as in fallen dragon,
 at some point, there will be, you know,
 enough processing power somewhere to crack all this
 and we'll have to come up with something new.
 - Well, it certainly is a matter of processing power.
 That is to say, the goal that you're trying
 to achieve, for example, in this one instance
 of prime number factorization,
 the goal is well known.
 It's like, no, here you have this really large number
 and you know for sure that it's the product of two primes.
 So it's not like you don't know how to crack it,
 it's just that you can't.
 And again, that's the beauty of modern cryptography
 is it relies not at all on obscurity.
 The, all of this has been published in mathematical journals.
 I mean, one of the constant background projects
 is prime number factorization.
 I thought, you know, the world's best math genius guys,
 you know, cut their teeth early in their careers
 on prime number factorization to see if they can come up
 with some way that no one else has thought of.
 And I mean, it's incredible what amount of science
 and math has been applied to this
 and it isn't budging, it is holding solid,
 no one has made any substantial progress in decades.
 So I mean, it really looks like this is a problem
 that has, no matter how clever you are,
 can only be attacked with brute force.
 And so we know what brute force requires
 in terms of processing, given all the cracking technologies
 that have been put together.
 And so we can say, okay, if, you know, a government level
 processing power worked on this thing for a thousand centuries,
 they would be able to crack it.
 But by then it would have zero value.
 - Well, let's talk a little bit about how crypto is used.
 'Cause I mean, when you say crypto,
 of course you assume that what we're talking about
 is taking an email message, scrambling it
 so it can't be read by anybody but the intended recipient.
 But it's really used for many, many more things than that.
 - Well, for example, we were just talking about hotspot VPN
 or OpenVPN using crypto just because we want to make sure
 that no one in the local environment
 could be sniffing our network connection
 and know what we're doing.
 And as we all know, whenever we're entering
 our credit card information, crypto is used only between
 the client browser and the e-commerce server
 just as it crosses the internet.
 As soon as it gets to the server,
 it's decrypted back into plaintext as it's called
 so that the e-commerce server
 is able to process our credit information.
 - Does digital rights management also rely on crypto?
 - Oh yeah, yeah.
 It's, you know, basically they're trying to do things
 which a consumer will not have the information to undo.
 I mean, I'm skeptical about any form of DRM
 standing the test of time.
 The problem is that you need to, for DRM,
 you need to put into the end user's home,
 a device which itself is able to decrypt the content.
 - Otherwise you wouldn't be able to play it.
 - Yeah, I mean, your DVD player knows how to decrypt a DVD.
 It hasn't built in.
 It has to in order to give you back the original picture.
 And so, you know, their solution is
 now there's all this, you know, the HDCP technology
 trying to push the crypto all the way out
 to the display device so that you can't capture the signal
 going from the DVD player to your screen,
 but still the projector or the TV set,
 it has to know how to decrypt this.
 And I mean, there are lots of smart people in the world
 and lots of reverse engineers,
 and there are people who are gonna be annoyed
 by the entertainment establishment trying to, you know,
 basically protect the entire channel
 right up to your retinas.
 - Crypto is also used, as I mentioned, in digital signing.
 It's not used in digital signing.
 It's not used to hide text, but it's used to validate text.
 Is it the same kind of crypto?
 - To authenticate.
 - To authenticate, yeah.
 - Yeah, authentication is a really interesting branch,
 and it's something we will be talking about here
 in the next couple weeks, because exactly as you say,
 the idea is that you want to sign a document,
 you can leave it in plain text,
 but you want to come up with a way of verifying two things.
 You want to verify with signing
 that no alteration has occurred to the document
 from the time it was signed by its author,
 and you want to also verify
 that it actually was created and signed
 by the person who you believe it was.
 And so it provides, you know, that level
 of sort of an envelope around the document,
 which anyone could read, but nobody can modify,
 and no one can forge the signature of the document.
 - So that's pretty widely used in a lot of different areas.
 Any other areas that we may not know about,
 the crypto is in use, I'm trying to think.
 Copy protection, encryption, of course,
 digital signing and authentication.
 It's used in voiceover internet
 or any kind of transaction over the internet,
 like secure transactions on your credit cards or VPNs.
 - Well, and of course, you know,
 people who are doing for pay TV delivery,
 either cable boxes or satellite,
 they've also using crypto in order to protect their channel,
 so those are the only users who are paying
 for their services are able to receive them.
 - Video on your Tivo is encrypted, so you can't steal it.
 - And in fact, that's another,
 the satellite over the cable box is another example
 of content providers trying and failing again
 to protect their content, because there's all kinds
 of satellite and cable box, you know,
 decloaking and hacking and, you know,
 content stealing technology around,
 because it's virtually impossible, I would say,
 to protect something all the way to the end of the channel.
 And in fact, one thing we haven't talked about, Leo,
 this is a perfect answer to your question,
 is as we know, Microsoft Windows and Intel
 are moving crypto into the platform.
 So that there will be technology in every single
 next generation PC, which will be involved
 in giving the operating system and the hosted software
 a tighter grip over what the end user
 is gonna be able to do.
 - That's controversial on both sides,
 the government doesn't like it because they want
 a backdoor and consumers don't like it
 'cause it builds DRM into the system.
 - Yeah, I mean, it really is a war of rights.
 - Yeah, fascinating stuff.
 There have been many great books written on cryptography.
 It's a field that has been important in so many ways
 from Napoleon's army to the enigma during World War II
 and of course now to PGP and the politics of terrorism.
 So this is gonna be a great subject.
 How many episodes are we gonna devote to this?
 - I think probably about four, actually.
 We're gonna start with how the not so secret decoder rings
 work next time, which is a perfect intro
 to symmetric cryptography.
 We're gonna talk about symmetric ciphers next week,
 then asymmetric ciphers the week after,
 then probably hashes and how signing works
 and then sort of put all these pieces together
 because what's so cool is these are some very clear
 and easily understood building blocks
 that you can then literally assemble in different ways
 to perform really cool
 and very different sorts of jobs in crypto.
 So that's gonna be neat.
 - Good.
 Steve Gibson, always a pleasure.
 I know there will be great interest in this
 and more and more I'm hearing people who are saving
 the shows and sharing them with other people,
 people who are in the field, who use it for education,
 people who are not in the field
 but wanna be in the field and are learning more
 and a lot of people who understand security
 but want their friends, family and coworkers
 to understand a little bit better too.
 So you're doing a great job.
 We thank you for your hard work.
 - Glad to do it and we'll talk to you next week.
 - All right, everything is online at grc.com/securitynow.htm.
 That's where Steve keeps the transcripts for this
 thanks to Elaine who types this up with her.
 Little fingers as quickly as she can
 right after we finish the podcast.
 - By the way, I got a little note from her this morning
 'cause the weather's looking pretty bad
 where she is in California.
 She maybe, she wasn't sure if she like lost her satellite
 up link with it.
 She'd be able to get the transcripts on time
 but she said she stayed up too late last night
 almost finishing fall on Dragon.
 - Oh, she's reading it.
 - I can't stop it. - I can't stop it.
 - I can't say, I can't, you are a pusher.
 (laughing)
 I can't stop, it's getting very exciting right now.
 It really is, yeah.
 If I didn't have so many darn podcasts today,
 I'd be finished.
 By the way, while you're there,
 there's also a 16 kilobyte version of the show,
 a 16K BPS, so that if it's too big a download for you
 to get the full quality version,
 get the low quality version, that's fine.
 And show notes with lots more information
 and links in a place where you can give Steve
 some feedback, great forms.
 It's all at grc.com.
 That's where you'll find SpinRight as well.
 That's the program that makes this all possible.
 Steve's file, a rather disk, maintenance and recovery
 utility, probably the guarantee,
 the best one in the business.
 If you can't recover it with SpinRight,
 you can't recover it with software, that's for sure.
 grc.com.
 Hey, thank you so much, Steve.
 We really appreciate it.
 Don't forget, folks, if you like the show,
 somebody asked me this and I want to kind of underscore it.
 They said, "Well, I've donated to Twit.
 "Does that count donated to security now?
 "Absolutely."
 But if you haven't donated it
 and you listen to any of the podcasts on Twit.tv,
 your donation would very much be appreciated
 and certainly helps us keep doing these kinds of things.
 They pays for our bandwidth, our server costs,
 our site redesign, all the equipment expenses and so forth.
 You can find the donate buttons at twit.tv.
 Steve Gibson, we'll see you next week
 for more on Crypto, Crypto 102, I guess we'll call it.
 - Yeah, and we want to remember to just thank AOL for--
 - Oh, I almost didn't, didn't I?
 Thank you.
 I don't want to get them mad at us
 'cause gosh, they push a lot of bandwidth for us
 at AOL Podcasts channel.
 The broadcast is show, by the way,
 at AOL.com/podcasting and provides us a bandwidth.
 Gosh, Steve, thank you for allowing me.
 No problem, have a great week.
 Talk to you next week.
 ♪ Security now ♪
