 (upbeat music)
 This is "Security Now" with Steve Gibson,
 Episode 32 for Thursday, March 23rd, 2006.
 Your questions, Steve's answers.
 (upbeat music)
 - Hello, Steve Gibson, Leo LaPoylio,
 in Northern California, Steve Gibson in Southern California,
 and we meet in the middle via Skype.
 - Which is really working well for us.
 - It is, it's remarkable.
 You know, it has something to do with the fact
 that you have spent some money on a good high-LPR 40 mic
 and an M audio interface.
 - Oh, I have a very nice microphone.
 - Yes, and I do too, Bob Hiles is.
 - Hello, by the way, he's gonna be at NAB
 and they're throwing a big party this week
 and Eric is just next week.
 - It's so funny, I watch Letterman
 and he's got the Hiles PR 40 there
 and he's banging it with his pencil all the time
 and it just bugs me to see him like whacking on it
 with his pencils, like David, stop that.
 - That's the way David is, he has a mic,
 they use a sure mic for his audience warm-up
 'cause you know, he comes out before the show,
 he does an audience warm-up and it's on a long cable
 and it's all dented up.
 You know, it has the round ball,
 the wire cage on the top of it.
 He is messed up and I thought,
 why is his mic all dented up?
 And then I saw round, he hits the, he bangs it around.
 Of course, that's all.
 But he's, that's part of his act is like banging on this stuff.
 - Right. - It's pretty great.
 So we talked about crypto last week
 and I know we wanna tie up some loose ends
 before we head into questions and answers.
 - Well, yeah, there's a couple things.
 First of all, people are wondering
 whatever happened to the open VPN guide
 that I have promised, it's on the way.
 I haven't forgotten it, I haven't,
 I mean, it's like my number one thing to be working on.
 I had a bunch of year-end tax stuff
 to deal with financial on over on my own GRC business side.
 But also, I'm working with a very talented developer
 in Russia who's got a bridging driver
 and we're basically coming up with a custom solution
 for open VPN which solves a number of problems
 that dramatically improve the robustness of its use
 and make it much easier to configure.
 So I haven't been sure how that was gonna proceed.
 You know, he's got other consulting he's doing.
 I've got like an 18-page template laid out.
 I'm fleshing them out.
 You've, in fact, seen a couple of the graphics
 that I sent you later. - Yeah, they do, yeah.
 - So, you know, I mean, it's,
 anyway, I just wanna let people know,
 I haven't forgotten about it, it's gonna happen.
 And it's gonna be just a tremendous reference
 once it comes together.
 But anyway, it's on the way.
 He's working on it, folks. - I'm working on it.
 Hey, Shane. - Okay, we had a guy
 referring to last week's discussion of,
 remember you asked me, Leo, the, like,
 when was that secret decoder ring kind of idea first use?
 You know, who did it first?
 And I don't know that this is accurate,
 but someone said that Julius Caesar did use it
 to communicate, you know, basically used
 a simple transposition cipher
 where letters were shifted some number of places,
 which is exactly what, you know, two concentric rings do,
 in order to communicate with his generals.
 - That's why they sometimes call it a caesarian cipher.
 - Right. - Yeah, yeah.
 So it's pretty old.
 In fact, I bet it predates that even.
 I mean, we know he used it, but I bet it predates that even.
 I mean, it's kind of an obvious thing
 once you have an alphabet.
 - Yeah, you know, or if you asked your gurus
 to come up with a way of, you know,
 easily encrypting data that a, you know,
 that a general who's not too clueful
 would be able to decrypt.
 I mean, it couldn't be too complicated
 if some guy on horseback wouldn't be able to figure it out.
 So- - Some barely literate guy.
 - Yeah, exactly.
 - All right.
 - Well now, we had, we're going to announce today
 the very first, I'm very excited about this,
 security now, puzzler brain teaser
 that relates to cryptography that comes
 from something last week.
 A guy wrote from the United Kingdom, Roger Cuthbert.
 He said, "Hey Steve, I had an idea about one time pads."
 He said, "There's an old, I don't know
 if it's a riddle or a trick or what,
 where you want to send somebody something securely
 using a padlock that he doesn't have the key to.
 So you put it in a box and you lock it with your own padlock.
 You send it to him.
 He adds his padlock to that.
 So now the box is doubly locked.
 He sends it back to you.
 You take off your padlock.
 So now it is still locked only with his.
 And then you send it back to him.
 He takes off his padlock and is now able to open the box.
 So what was so clever about Roger thinking about this
 is he says, "You know, why couldn't you do this
 with one time pads?
 You have a one time pad, he has a different one time pad.
 So you encrypt your message using your one time pad,
 send it to him."
 He encrypts that encrypted message with his one time pad
 and sends it back to you.
 - So only he could, go ahead.
 - Well, okay, so now you decrypt the one time pad
 that he encrypted with your one time pad.
 Now the message is only encrypted with his.
 - It's half encrypted, right, yeah.
 - Then you send it back to him.
 He decrypts it with his one time pad
 and now it's back into plain text.
 So essentially every transport of the message
 was encrypted either by yours, by both of yours
 or by only his.
 And neither of you had to share your one time pads
 with each other.
 And what's wrong with that?
 I mean, isn't that like a really cool solution
 for sending an encrypted message?
 - This eliminates the problem of exchanging one time pads
 which is the weak link in a one time pad system.
 - Exactly.
 So I think if you draw a picture of this,
 it will become clearer.
 - Well, yeah, or if you think of it using that lock box
 analogy, you know, the idea, and what's cool about this,
 the encryption that we've talked about,
 we, I'm gonna run back real briefly a little summary
 of last week, you know, the idea we talked about exclusive
 or where you take a byte of data and you exclusive or it
 with a random byte.
 Another way to think about that that I didn't specifically
 say, but it sort of makes it clear is that you have sort of
 a, think of having a stream of bits of your message
 and you are, and what the exclusive or does is it,
 it conditionally or optionally or maybe inverts a bit
 of your message.
 So basically you are, when you exor your message
 with a stream of random bits, basically you're,
 you're randomly inverting your message bits.
 And what's cool is that you can do the same thing again.
 If you, if you reexor with the same random bits,
 then you're going to flip the ones that were flipped before
 back to where they were, restoring the original message.
 - Right.
 - Now, that's why this idea of being able to like double
 encode a message works.
 'Cause your pad, bunch of random bits,
 then you send it to the other guy.
 He uses his different pad to flip a different set of bits.
 He sends it back to you.
 You use your pad to again flip your specific set of bits.
 And then when it goes back to him and he does it a second
 time, it flips everything back the way they actually all
 really were.
 So you could sort of see how it might work.
 Now, if, if someone's confused about this exor thing,
 the, we could fall back to this notion of a ring.
 Remember we initiated this whole dialogue talking about
 the secret decoder ring where you, from, from a given letter,
 you go some number of, of letters or symbols forward
 to encode, and then you go some number of symbol,
 that same number of symbols backwards to decode.
 So, so in the same way that an exor can be used reversibly,
 you could also just use addition and subtraction on the ring
 where you take the random number and add it to the symbol
 to get a new one.
 And then, for example, if he did the same thing,
 then you've sort of both added your own random numbers.
 Then you, when it comes back to you, you subtract your
 random number, the same random number that you had added
 before, and then when you send this back to him,
 he subtracts his same random number, which will bring you
 back to the original symbol.
 So, anyway, that's what we're gonna leave people with
 for one week.
 - So, you're saying it doesn't work?
 There's a flaw.
 - No, I'm not saying, I'm saying maybe this is really cool.
 - Oh, okay.
 - So, maybe it works, maybe not.
 People should think about it and decide what they think,
 and we'll have the answer at the beginning of next week's show.
 - You are sneaky.
 Okay, Q and A time.
 - Well, I've got the questions.
 - Are you okay? - You have the answers?
 - I have, I hope so.
 (laughing)
 - Let's go, first two related questions touching on the same
 very important conceptual issue.
 You mentioned that a 128-bit website encryption is safe
 to use and near impossible to crack, but if that's the case,
 why is it copy protection is so easily broken?
 What's the difference between that and a website encryption?
 Is TrueCrypt or any other crypto program open to easycrack?
 Is, and before you answer that, let me just mention that
 in your introduction to the cryptography episode,
 a couple of weeks ago, you said that DRM was doomed,
 and I agreed with you and could always be cracked,
 but then you keep saying uncrackable voiceover internet
 or uncrackable email.
 - Whoa.
 - Yep, yep, that's a really good point.
 And it's, the reason I wanted to present these questions
 is that there's a fundamental concept here,
 which is crucial for people to get.
 And that is that the reason DRM can be cracked
 is that the device which knows how to decrypt
 the encrypted data is right there,
 and it's doing it in front of you in order for you
 to get the content which is being displayed
 or listened to or whatever.
 - Somebody has the private key.
 - Well, it has, it has whatever.
 I mean, even, I mean, whatever it is,
 it knows how to bring it back into usable form.
 And copy protection is the same way.
 If something is copy protected,
 it's got to be unprotected for the computer to run it.
 So when it's running in your machine,
 it's in a runnable state.
 That is, whatever it is that's been done
 has been undone to it in order for it to be usable.
 And that's the key.
 So what's different with website encryption
 is, and we'll get into this in the coming weeks here
 when we explain how symmetric key and asymmetric key
 and public key and all this stuff all interrelate.
 But the idea is that you're encrypting information
 which is going somewhere else.
 And you know where in between, in the middle,
 no eavesdropper has the sufficient information
 to do the decryption.
 But when it's coming to a device
 which is going to run copy protected software
 or display DRM data, that device has to know how to display it.
 And so the point is, anything can be reverse engineered.
 So it's, you know, anything.
 I mean, this is how DVD encryption
 just got cracked immediately
 was a very clever engineer,
 figured out what the DVD players were doing
 in order to do the decryption.
 He said, "Oh, here's how it's done."
 - A very clever 16 year old engineer.
 Yeah, they didn't have to be that clever
 because they're doing.
 And so he wrote DCSS which reverses that process.
 It allows you to kind of do the same thing
 as a DVD player would do.
 - But for example, if you're just exchanging a,
 like you have an opaque token that someone has given you,
 it's like here, hold onto this and give it back to me.
 It's sort of like a web browser cookie.
 You have nothing to go on to decrypt that.
 You have no traction.
 You don't have in your computer the code
 which is going to turn that into something that makes sense.
 Instead, you're just giving it back if it's been given to you
 and you just have no traction.
 - Yeah.
 Eric Bolt writes from Hotmail, a Hotmail account.
 I have a wireless connection enabled
 but it isn't connected to a wireless access point
 or another computer.
 For example, I'm at work with my laptop.
 He's hardwired into the land, you know, RJ45 plugged in there.
 His wireless connection is still enabled
 but he's not using it.
 Is there a security threat there?
 Could somebody get on his computer through that?
 - Yes, yes, yes, yes.
 And in fact, there are several known hacks.
 Wireless can work in two different modes
 in infrastructure mode where you have the traditional type
 of access we've been talking about
 where the infrastructure is at a wireless access point
 or base station.
 The alternative way to operate is called ad hoc
 where, for example, two laptops are able
 just to talk to each other without using a,
 instead of like talking through the access point
 they are able to connect directly.
 Windows XP's default mode is both
 to allow both infrastructure and ad hoc.
 And there have been reports that are confirmed
 of people on airplanes whose laptops are being used
 getting hacked on the fly, if you'll pardon the pun.
 - Even though they're not on the internet
 just because their airport's still on.
 - Yes, because they're--
 - Or their airport, that's a very Apple specific thing,
 Wi-Fi is still on.
 - Exactly, so it is the case that a computer,
 even if, as it was in Eric's case here,
 hooked into a LAN with an RJ45 hard wire,
 if his radio is on and the computer is configured
 to allow ad hoc operation.
 And that's something you can change in Windows,
 but it's really better, and that's what I always do,
 is just to turn that off when you're not really using it.
 I mean, it saves battery power for one thing,
 and it's just sort of a, it's a good secure practice
 to shut down any radios that you don't actually need
 to be using at any time, because it's an exposure.
 - If you had WAP turned on the, or I'm sorry,
 WPA turned on on your client side with that component.
 - You are gonna be safe, yes.
 - You are safe then, okay.
 So if you don't want to turn it off,
 if you're using, you should just be using WPA.
 Well, wait a minute, though, because you can't have it
 turned on all the time, because otherwise you wouldn't,
 on to, oh, I don't know, that's too common for me.
 I mean, in other words, I don't turn it on,
 you can't turn it on for all connections,
 'cause otherwise you wouldn't be able to get on
 when you got to Starbucks, so it's only when you're connecting
 with a wireless access point, that's what you want.
 - That's a good point, and it may be that, for example,
 someone has had to turn their security off
 when they were doing something else,
 when they were like away from their home,
 in order to use an open connection.
 - Security isn't really blanket for any connection
 into your card, it's just saying,
 when you connect with this access point, use security.
 But your card is kind of promiscuous.
 If you want to use that term.
 Jason in Orlando writes, I just ran into something
 I've never noticed before.
 I'm a college student in Orlando, and I'm on a school PC,
 still using Internet Explorer,
 they're slowly making Firefox available,
 but not yet, you're in mine.
 I logged into Gmail, checked my mail,
 then went to another site after browsing for a few minutes,
 I had it back to Gmail, you know, mail.google.com
 to see if I had a response, and it went right there,
 I didn't have to pass muster, I didn't have to give it a login
 or password or anything, it just opened my inbox,
 I closed the window, but a new one had back to Gmail,
 and then I had to log in again.
 He said I simulated the thing a few more times
 and realized that if I didn't close the window,
 I could always just go right back in without a password.
 I can't remember how many times
 I left a terminal at school
 and just clicked the homepage button for the next user,
 and he said I'm gonna try this at home.
 Is this something to be aware of?
 Well, actually, I think that's a very useful bit of caution
 for anyone using web browser-based email.
 What he's seeing is that he's got his Google mail account
 configured to, by default, just sort of stay open.
 He wasn't explicitly clicking logout,
 and on any of those pages when you're in Google mail
 and many other web-based mail systems,
 you can explicitly log out.
 That invalidates your login for that session.
 He was-- It's what's called a session cookie to say,
 so it checks a session cookie, says oh, he's still here.
 Well, exactly, and in fact, we will be talking about cookies
 also in the future because there are session cookies
 and much more persistent cookies,
 and you can tell Google mail that you wanna stay logged in
 on the current machine unless you log out.
 But even if you don't have that option set,
 unless you explicitly log out
 and you keep that browser session open,
 which is what was happening in this case,
 you're still logged in.
 So it's a useful cautionary note
 that people should explicitly log out
 whenever they're using a public terminal.
 Many sites, I think the Google mail included,
 have a little check mark under the box
 saying public terminal login or not.
 I'm not sure if what that's saying
 is don't save any session cookies
 or if it's saying don't save any long-term cookies.
 Yeah, Google mail doesn't have that that I've seen.
 I've seen it before on many sites
 where it's saying is this a private machine
 in which case just for convenience will maintain your login,
 but it sounds like...
 Yeah, it does sound like they may have taken extra measures.
 Like for example, maybe it times out
 after a much shorter period of time.
 Yeah, yeah.
 I have that on my fast mail account.
 Let me just, yeah, I thought for sure
 that Google would do that.
 I mean, it would seem to be sensible.
 Anyway, that's a good thing.
 So what your recommendation is close the browser
 or better yet, just sign out.
 Oh no, explicitly click the log off or a log out link
 before you close the browser window
 'cause you just, you know, you wanna make sure
 your log on credentials have been with that remote server.
 Very, very important.
 All right.
 And I'm just looking through the Google settings
 and I don't see anywhere that you can,
 there must be somewhere where you can say look,
 don't save anything, but maybe not.
 It is a convenience.
 Alan Akins asks, are there any issues with using PPTP?
 That's point to point tunneling protocol
 which Windows uses as its VPN protocol.
 I currently use DDWRT with a PPTP server enabled
 and I was wondering if there are any security issues with it.
 Is it also okay to open the PPTP port
 which is 1753 to a Windows computer
 and set up the Windows computer
 to accept incoming connections for a VPN?
 Well, he asks, are there any security issues?
 That's a huge question of course.
 No right answer either.
 Okay, opening a port to Windows means
 that it will accept incoming traffic, incoming connections.
 And we've seen, I mean, time after time after time,
 buffer overruns in Windows machines.
 And so you're, if you, anytime you open a port
 to a Windows machine, you are hoping and praying
 that there isn't some known or unknown exploit
 that would allow that buffer overrun
 if there was one to be taken advantage of.
 I mean, as we know, you put an unprotected Windows machine
 on the internet and it's just hosed in a matter of minutes.
 It's the really good thing that service pack two
 for XP did for us is that they've got their own
 little firewall running all the time.
 So for example, for him to open this port,
 he'd have to explicitly allow traffic through the firewall.
 It's that firewall which is responsible for, you know,
 making service pack two of Windows XP a much better machine.
 Now, the one, the one architectural security problem
 is that point-to-point tunneling protocol
 does not have strong authentication.
 That is, it's very possible for if somebody was determined
 and wanted to, for someone else to be able
 to log on to his machine remotely,
 which is certainly not what he wants.
 It's Microsoft just has tried several times,
 they've strengthened their algorithms,
 but they just don't, they don't wanna take the step
 to provide strong authentication
 because it's not as simple as not having strong authentication.
 It's one of the things, for example,
 that makes open VPN a little trickier to configure
 because open VPN, you know, our chosen solution
 has, I mean, industrial strength, military strength,
 authentication, nobody who doesn't have your credentials
 will be able to log on to your system.
 That's not true, point-tunneling protocol.
 - So your recommendation would be not to open that port
 and what does that come in connections?
 - I would call that a security issue, you know,
 and he was saying, are there any security issues?
 - Yes, you're created one.
 - Yeah, I mean, if he really wants to use point-to-point
 tunneling protocol, see, he's got a router
 and I guess it's maybe a little safer
 if he uses his router as his endpoint
 that is connects using PPTP to his router,
 that would get him into his network
 as opposed to trusting the point-to-point
 tunneling protocol server on Windows,
 which just, you know, always makes me think twice.
 - Right, are there any particular flaws you know of right now
 or are we in between flaws?
 - Yep, and of course, no one knows about a flaw
 until we all know about it.
 So you can almost, I mean, I think with any software,
 you can pretty much say, I don't think you could ever say
 that a software is guaranteed flawless.
 You write software, you know, it's just too complex.
 - It's very, very, very hard.
 - Yeah, yeah.
 Unless we're writing an ADA or something,
 which nobody does.
 - Does anybody write an ADA anymore?
 - I think it's gone.
 - That was something, the language,
 the Department of Defense proposed based on Pascal
 that was intended to be a secure language, you know,
 much harder to create bugs in.
 - And support big projects in team building
 and all these other things.
 - Yeah, it was just a big goose.
 It was fashionable, no, nobody uses it.
 Of course, I'm talking to a guy
 who programs an assembly like that,
 which probably is a good secure way to do it.
 At least you know what's going on.
 Allen and Des Moines writes,
 "If the limiting factor for crypto security
 is computing power, how about distributed processing?
 Things like, you know, SETI at home or the folding at home?
 Couldn't some Trojan horse fires infect millions of PCs
 and have them all act as processing units for a crypto?"
 Wait a minute, this is too good an idea.
 I'm not sure I want to read this question.
 Acting as processing units for a crypto cracker
 and get around the processing power requirement,
 you could create a pretty massive supercomputer, couldn't you?
 - Yeah, well, in fact,
 that's what the SETI at home project does, of course,
 is they're borrowing everyone's screensaver time
 while their machines are on,
 doing all this number crunching signal processing
 of signals received from outer space, you know,
 basically a massive distributed computer
 whose overall computing power is extremely high.
 A number of people suggested this idea.
 That is, you know, because one of the things we talked about
 last week was that, you know,
 it's only a function of computing power.
 If you had long enough or fast enough,
 brute force attacks can function.
 The thing that renders that infeasible
 is the scale of difficulty
 as the number of bits that are used in the key increase.
 I've got a table here and I'll just give you a sense
 for how quickly these numbers get big.
 And the point is that, for example,
 we glibly talk about a 128-bit key,
 but it's not, for example, twice as hard as a 64-bit key,
 it's the squared as hard, it's the total number
 of combinations squared more difficult.
 So, for example, if a given computer
 at a given speed took two seconds
 to crack a 40-bit key,
 that same computer would take 35 hours
 to crack a 56-bit key.
 Wow.
 One year to crack a 64-bit key,
 70,000 years to crack a 64-bit key,
 14 years to crack a 112-bit key
 and 10 to the 19 years to crack a 128-bit key.
 So, you'd have to get a lot of computers
 in your little cluster to solve that one.
 There aren't that many computers.
 I mean, so my point is that's the rate
 at which computing the computing burden
 for brute force cryptographic cracking.
 That's the rate at which it scales as key length goes up.
 And for example, just for the hell of it,
 I'm using 256-bit keys in my open VPN system,
 because why not?
 I mean, now we have computers that can handle
 that length with no trouble at all.
 And I mean, the Lord knows how many years that,
 I mean, it's the point where, you know,
 your home will be attacked and ripped apart by someone--
 Someone of the sun. Exactly.
 You can stop worrying about being your encryption message
 being stolen, worry about the sun exploding,
 'cause that's only a few billion years off.
 Yes. I use, I just created a new key
 for my PGP signing, and I use a 4096-bit key.
 Well, now, that'll be the public key,
 which is different than the bulk crypto.
 Right, but that's why-- That's way big, Leo.
 But, and it used to be that you would choose a smaller one,
 'cause of the computational penalty,
 but you don't have that anymore, right?
 These things, these computers are so fast.
 So is the default key still 128-bit or--
 128-bit is really safe,
 and that's what SSL is using for its crypto.
 And I mean, it's 10 to the 14 years, we're safe.
 Right, right.
 No matter how many, you know,
 steady computers we commandeer for crypto.
 And notice that all that work would only crack one key.
 If you did all that, you would crack one key.
 As we're gonna be learning in coming weeks,
 the new technologies which use public key technology,
 sort of piggyback per session symmetric keys
 like we've been talking about.
 So they're changing all the time.
 And in fact, I've got open VPN set up,
 and this is what I'll be explaining to people,
 how it's changing the key automatically,
 periodically, even during a connection.
 So it's just give up.
 I mean, you just no longer have to worry
 about the security of this stuff.
 And if you update your key every year,
 you're probably safe.
 Andy from Chicago, Illinois' rights.
 Boy, we gotta get, we gotta quite a few here.
 We're gonna start moving a little faster.
 My ISP Cyberonic recently switched back-backbones
 and issued new IP addresses to subscribers.
 What I've learned since is that the range of IPs I'm now in
 was recently in the Bogon address space.
 It's just, he says a new vocabulary word for him.
 This is causing big issues with anything going upstream,
 web mail, FTP, web dev,
 and some sites have trouble loading images.
 I've contacted the admins of some of the sites
 who come to the conclusion,
 the packets are being blocked somewhere in root.
 I'm not certain where to even start looking for solutions.
 Any ideas?
 Well, this is really an interesting question.
 I thought it was, it was really fun.
 First of all, a Bogon for, you know,
 he was talking about this being a new vocabulary word,
 a Bogon is the measurement of Bogosity.
 So, or Bogusness.
 So, it's like, it's the quantum.
 You can have so many Bogons worth of Bogosity,
 you know, technically.
 I have said before that we're not running out of IPs
 on the internet and that there's even a lot of IP space
 still not being used.
 Remember that we've talked about how, for example,
 anything beginning with a 10, you know,
 10.anything is, is we know is reserved for private networks.
 So, that's a Bogon.
 So, yes, that is one of the Bogons.
 What happens is internet routers are configured
 to drop any traffic which is destined
 for the so-called the Bogon space,
 which is a term that the network engineers use.
 Get this, 40% of our current internet IP space is Bogon.
 40%, 40% is non-routable, unused space.
 - So, that's the 10 dot, the 128, or 192.168.
 - Well, in fact, even looking at just,
 yes, exactly, even looking at just the first byte,
 anything beginning with a zero, a one, a two, a five, a seven,
 23, 27, 31, 36, 37, 39, 42, 48, 50, 77, 78, 79, 89 through 123,
 127, which of course is a no, like the local host range,
 and then 173 through 187 and 197.
 - If all of those are just, they don't exist.
 They're Bogons.
 - How did Andy get a Bogon IP address?
 - Well, what happens is, he must, what happened was,
 someone somehow convinced I can to give up
 one of these big networks.
 The problem is, all over the internet,
 there are routers configured with this Bogon space,
 and firewalls, and all kinds of equipment
 that just have these like hard-blocked.
 - Don't let anything in from that address
 'cause it's not a real address, so.
 - Exactly, so essentially the problem is
 that a recently allocated IP region
 is no longer Bogon space, but it's taking
 the rest of the internet some length of time
 to get the message, to get the news.
 Meanwhile, equipment will just be dropping his traffic
 and there's nothing he can do about it.
 - Wow.
 - I mean, it's annoying.
 - Wow.
 - So, as this happened frequently, the Bogon IP addresses
 are reassigned to the real world?
 - No, not frequently at all.
 I mean, the people who keep these things allocated and assigned,
 I mean, these IPs are just precious treasure on the internet.
 And of course, as we know, the emergence of NAT technology
 that allows corporations to run many computers
 on few public IPs and even individuals, you know?
 I've got one public IP on my cable modem
 and I can run a whole network as do all of our listeners.
 So, you know, of many computers.
 So, the pressure has been hugely reduced
 thanks to NAT routers.
 And so, you know, there are, there's like 40%
 of the net is still unallocated.
 - So, you can appeal to ICANN and the RIRs and say,
 "Look, we're using this and please."
 - You've got to make a, yes, you have to make a really good case.
 And if you make a really good case--
 - But then you just have all this legacy hardware
 that's not going to be updated and--
 - You're going to have some pain for a while.
 While network administrators all over the net go,
 "Oh, look, this is no longer a Bogon address in the IP space."
 - We have our first question from the Amish country.
 We don't get a lot of questions from the Amish country.
 I'm not sure why.
 Dave, just a joke.
 - Do they have computers?
 - I know.
 - Dave Solon in Amish country, "Manheim PA rights."
 I have a question for you regarding hotel lands.
 I was recently at a hotel where you could hook up
 to their cable modems for free access.
 The cable coax line from its TV was split.
 So, one line went to the TV, one to the cable modems.
 They actually had a cable modem in each room.
 - Isn't that neat?
 - I'm guessing this hotel didn't have their own land.
 And this might be a little safer than plugging into a hotel
 where you simply plug into their network.
 Is that true?
 - Yes, it is true.
 I had never heard of a hotel giving every room
 its own cable modem.
 - Now, I should say that I have heard of hotels
 doing this, they aren't actually doing that.
 They have their own private network,
 which provides both TV and data.
 And they're putting decoders in the room.
 - Ah, okay.
 - I think it's more likely what was happening.
 - Even so, if they're using traditional
 doxis style cable modems, that is the universal standard
 for cable modem technology,
 that is an encrypted signal over the coax.
 - So, that modem would be kind of a barrier
 to anybody trying to look at you.
 - Exactly.
 So, the things we've talked about,
 the dangers we've talked about before
 of people easily, for example, sniffing your traffic
 and playing games, I can't say for sure
 that they would be defeated
 because you'd have to really look at the network
 to see, for example, how ARP traffic was being handled
 within that network.
 It might be that these cable modem-like things
 are just really bridges, which are bridging the LAN
 through the coax segment.
 That's a possibility.
 But it is potentially more secure
 than just unregular 10-based T-style LAN
 that we see in most hotels.
 - That's interesting.
 - Yeah, I thought it was cool.
 - Point.
 - In fact, staying on that subject,
 another listener has asked if I want a secure connection
 in a hotel, can I just carry my NAT router with me?
 - I like that one, too, a lot.
 'Cause it was like, well, we've talked so much
 about how secure NAT routers are,
 that is what security they provide.
 So, someone thinking about, okay, hotels are a problem.
 How about if I just use my own NAT router?
 The problem is, that would secure you
 sort of within your own room, where you're already secure,
 but your traffic then would still be communal
 on the public side of the NAT router.
 So, you would, unfortunately, it provides no security
 from inter-room eavesdropping sorts of things,
 which is the problem in a hotel setting.
 One thing it does give you, though, of course,
 is a very good firewall, in the same way that a NAT router
 always blocks unsolicited incoming traffic.
 So, it would potentially firewall your computer,
 if you didn't already have a software firewall,
 it'd be useful for that.
 But it wouldn't completely protect you
 from the types of inter-room LAN problems
 that we've talked about in recent weeks.
 >> Hmm, in fact I do that, because when I go to,
 I carry my airport express, I'm in a hardwired hotel
 to give myself kind of my in-room airport,
 and I use-- >> So, you can sit on the bed
 with the laptop-- >> Yeah, exactly.
 Yeah. >> And I use WPA.
 But it's important to remember this,
 once it gets on the other side of that router,
 it's just unencrypted plain old traffic,
 just like I did. >> Right, right.
 >> That's why I use Hot Spot VPN, thanks to you.
 >> Exactly.
 Pat Deary and many other sharp-eared listeners
 have mentioned during episode 29,
 that was our Ethernet insecurity episode.
 You said-- >> You said, Steve.
 >> I did. >> I'm pointing at you.
 The ARP cache poison occurs when a malicious computer
 sends out a false ARP response to two other computers,
 making the malicious computer the man in the middle.
 My question is, do the two computers
 just accept the responses blindly?
 Even if they didn't send out a request,
 couldn't this be avoided?
 If the two computers in question only accept responses
 for requests they send?
 That was a neat idea, and many listeners had it.
 That is the idea being that the way ARP is implemented today,
 it's trivial for a malicious machine
 to send unsolicited responses to computers,
 to cause them to change the MAC address with the IP
 that it was previously associated with,
 in order for them to send their traffic through it.
 And so people said, hey, wait a minute,
 what if computers just ignored responses
 that they didn't send?
 Well, that kind of could work, but then you get a problem
 of the bad guy responding first before the good guy
 to a valid ARP request with their response.
 And then you would ignore the second one,
 but then you've got the problem of not being able to detect
 IP collisions on a LAN.
 You want to be able to detect when two machines have the same IP.
 I'm sure, Leo, with all the networking you've done over time,
 you've seen the little Windows dialog box that comes up and says,
 wait a minute, there's another machine with the same IP somewhere.
 So the problem is really not tinkering with the protocol,
 but the problem is a lack of authentication.
 And the right way to solve it, we'll
 be talking about it downstream.
 There are some forthcoming specs.
 I think it's 802.1x begins to do this,
 where we get authentication of endpoints on a LAN, which
 will begin to solve this problem.
 And that's the right way of doing it.
 Instead of trying to play with a protocol,
 then you get all kinds of weird side effects and things
 break in bad ways.
 OK.
 But it would kind of be like a router rejecting stuff
 that didn't initiate.
 Yeah, it's very much the same sort of concept.
 Yeah, but there are issues with it.
 Kevin, the problem is the problem in this case
 is because there's no authentication,
 you don't know that the first answer you get is not the bad guy.
 Oh, that's right.
 Of course.
 So you just interrupt.
 Excuse me, I'll take this from here.
 I got this.
 I got it.
 Let's see.
 Kevin Hooper writes from his Hotmail account.
 I had some suspicious activity yesterday.
 When I loaded drivers, and for a USB video capture device,
 and then Microsoft anti-spyware flashed a LSP layered service
 provider warning--
 that sounds pretty dire.
 Subsequent behavior of zone alarm only increased my anxiety.
 It disabled it spontaneously.
 What's that?
 What's an LSP, particularly when you're
 talking about a USB video capture device.
 And what should a user look for when
 using a layer inspector, like the add-on from Adaware?
 Well, we haven't--
 I don't even know what he's talking about,
 but you're the spy working, so I'll let you--
 well, a layered service provider
 is a feature that runs up in the user's space.
 There's user space and kernel space.
 And so there are kernel drivers that run down there
 that interface with the hardware up
 in where the programs themselves run in so-called user space.
 There are DLLs that get loaded in order for user applications
 to talk to the network.
 Microsoft, in their infinite wisdom--
 Infinite wisdom, yes.
 --created something called a layered service provider
 as a feature of Windows.
 What it allows you to do, essentially,
 is it allows any software--
 and then, of course, there's no protection for this,
 no authentication, no notification, nothing.
 It allows any software to insert itself as a shim
 in the networking traffic, sort of up in the user space.
 It's sort of a poor man's network interface ability.
 The bad news is spyware is using this in order
 to intercept browser and email traffic and to insert its own
 and basically play all kinds of games.
 So people like the Adaware guys have--
 they're like aware of this being another vector of attack
 for spyware.
 And they're now keeping an eye on sort
 of the chain of processes in the so-called layered service
 provider stack, because you're able to have multiple service
 providers that like sort of link to each other
 and bad stuff inserts itself in there.
 So essentially, it's sort of one more--
 More vectors.
 One more vector of vulnerability that Windows has.
 And so apparently, in this case, maybe the software
 was buggy to this guy installed.
 Or he just has a lot of software like Adaware and Zonalarm
 and Microsoft anti-spyware that are all now watching
 the layer service provider stack for any changes
 and alerting him if something changes.
 He apparently installed something benign.
 So he should say, OK, this thing is a layered service
 provider, shim, installing piece of software.
 Now I know.
 So that's what it means.
 Wow.
 There's a pattern here in the way Microsoft works.
 I mean, essentially, they're enabling
 without really thinking about it,
 just putting these in that let people do anything they want.
 Yes.
 I mean, it's just the way they operate,
 the way they implement.
 Now, in fairness, this is old stuff.
 It's still around, like so much other of Microsoft's old stuff
 for the sake of forward compatibility.
 So this stuff has been around since before security
 was really an issue, which we could argue for Microsoft
 has only been in the last couple of years.
 So I don't know that they would do it this way now.
 One would hope they wouldn't, but we are stuck with it.
 And the malware has found it.
 And it's just a simple way for malware
 to get itself running in basically in every process
 that the user uses that communicates with the internet.
 This LSP stuff is potentially really bad.
 Wow.
 Anthony from Albuquerque asks, I recently--
 did you have to look up Albuquerque when you typed that,
 by the way?
 I think I probably did.
 I just put it into Google.
 And Google says, did you mean this?
 You mean?
 Oh, yeah.
 That is probably the single hardest to do this, Bill.
 I recently relocated that.
 My new place I have a DSL connection with an ISP
 that is issuing private IP addresses.
 We're going to have to start limiting people to three or four
 acronyms per message here.
 I have a DSL connection with an ISP that is issuing private IP
 addresses.
 This is that 192.168.1 to me.
 I had to change my router configuration to issue 192.168.0.
 Something in order to get online.
 Everything's working OK, except BitTorrent.
 I'm thinking the ISP is either actively throttling BitTorrent
 traffic, which is very common now.
 Or preventing a good connection by not having the BitTorrent
 ports forwarded the way I have to on my own router.
 I'm using a Xerius, but my ISP is not
 on their list of so-called bad ISPs.
 I changed my BitTorrent port as also recommended by a Xerius
 that hasn't helped in my troubleshooting.
 I also discovered my dynamic DNS is no longer working properly.
 As the IP it receives is an external IP in a router somewhere.
 OK, another 192.168.
 Is there another way around this ISP's shenanigans
 to get Dine DNS and BitTorrent working?
 OK.
 How does this even work?
 This guy is hosed.
 The ISP is using a router to connect these other--
 they're not giving you a real IP address.
 That's exactly right, Leo.
 And I've seen this before, and it's beginning to happen.
 ISPs may be who can't get a large enough public IP
 space for all of their customers.
 They're beginning to run NAT themselves and then
 issue private space 192.168.x.y IPs to their customers.
 Now, this guy was able to get his router to work
 because he was smart enough to know
 that you have to have different networks on either side
 of the NAT router so that it's able to know which traffic
 to route across.
 So for example, his ISP in this case
 was issuing 192.168.1.something.
 And that was the default subnet inside of his router.
 So he had to change that, and he was able to work.
 But he still has the problem that his traffic from his own use
 is not going public until after it crosses his ISP's router.
 I could ask a lot of issues coming out of something like that.
 Well, you can't run servers.
 You see, his BitTorrent client is trying to be a server.
 Exactly.
 And there's no way to run a server without explicit port
 forwarding.
 And the ISP can't forward ports to everyone.
 They would only be able to go to one particular user.
 We'd be able to use video chat either, right?
 I mean, there's a lot of things that would break.
 As I said, this guy is seriously hosed.
 I mean, this is why ISPs don't do this very well.
 I mean, you'd think this would be then their advantage
 to do it, but it would cause so many problems.
 It's convenient for the ISP.
 But basically, you end up being a client only to the internet,
 and all kinds of stuff will no longer work.
 So complain to the ISP, and if they don't fix it,
 you're going to have to go somewhere else.
 If I would go somewhere else, if there's any way he can change ISPs,
 that's the first I just don't even consider complaining.
 I can see a small rural ISP doing this because they're small.
 They don't have a big enough pool.
 Essentially, they become kind of in-house, like renter of access.
 But you can't do--
 I mean, a lot of things break.
 A lot of things.
 Yeah.
 Chris Peterson, our last question.
 Chris Peterson of Billings Montana asks, can anyone's machine--
 can anyone's machine just be hacked during an argument
 online the other day?
 A belligerent kid said he was just going to hack into my machine,
 and he was going to get what he wanted from it.
 And so there, I assumed he was bluffing.
 He didn't seem that smart, but could a really talented hacker
 crack into anyone's machines?
 In other words, is any machine vulnerable?
 The good news is no, no.
 It's not like in the movies where you just decide, OK,
 we're going to go hack into this computer system somewhere
 and get whatever we want to from it.
 I mean, the bad news is many systems
 are so complex that there are ways in.
 But in some cases, that requires social engineering,
 where you get the secretary of the bosses out of town
 to flip his keyboard upside down and read you his password
 on the bottom of his keyboard or something like that.
 I mean, there can be ways in.
 But fundamentally, if it's not as if all computers have sort
 of like have a soft boundary, and if you just poke at them
 hard enough, you'll be able to stick your spike all the way
 through their crust.
 I mean, it just doesn't work that way.
 So that's the good news.
 On the other hand, there are so many holes and exploits
 in operating systems these days that there's no guarantee
 that you're safe either.
 You've been watching, of course, OSX has been having its share
 of trouble and safari and so forth, although they're talking
 about OS X having problems because it has a lot
 of old Unix programs and Apple hasn't been
 assiduous about making sure the patches are applied.
 But I haven't seen any widespread exploits.
 I mean, it seems more theoretical.
 But it's something to keep in mind always
 that unless you are actively hardening a system,
 there's always the chance that you're hackable.
 And if you're a good hacker, you probably
 have in your toolkit a few of these well-known exploits
 that are out there.
 Well, and I would say if nothing else,
 yeah, I would say if nothing else,
 the notion of needing to keep your software patched
 and current has now arrived for Mac users the way
 it arrived years before for Microsoft Windows users.
 Although I think most Mac users is kind of by default turned
 on that there's a software update feature.
 They did it before Microsoft did it, and it's automatic.
 And I think most Mac users have it turned on.
 I think there's a bigger issue, and I was guilty of this.
 We kind of tend to run as administrator, which, of course,
 if you've ever used a Unix system that is very potent,
 you never run as root.
 But both Windows and Mac users tend
 to run as administrator.
 On Windows, you almost have to, because there's
 so many programs that won't run otherwise.
 On the Mac, you can, in fact, very conveniently, very easily
 run as a limited user.
 Well, in fact, from the Unix world,
 the idea of being root, as it's called, is so powerful
 that from day one, programs have all assumed
 they would not be running as root.
 They would create their own like a news account
 or an Apache account or whatever that would run
 with limited resources.
 So the heritage of Unix has that fundamental security
 awareness advantage, where things really do work just fine,
 not being root, and you only briefly
 have to do that from time to time for special true maintenance
 things, whereas, as you say, Leo, under Windows,
 all kinds of stuff is just broken.
 The heritage is the opposite of assuming
 that you have all power.
 Exactly.
 And that's exactly the difference.
 It's just how people are used to working.
 Our programs are used to working.
 Steve, we are through the questions.
 Well done.
 I think we will resume then.
 Next week, we'll come back with our answer
 to this week's puzzler brain teaser.
 Why can't you send messages back and forth using
 that double lock approach with a one time pad?
 Or can you send them back and forth?
 Does that work in order to give you
 a really cool encryption system?
 It seems to me that if it worked,
 that it would be more widely used.
 So I'm thinking--
 And it's got to be something wrong with that.
 And so the question is what?
 People can think about it for a week.
 And we'll give them the answer at the beginning of the show
 next week.
 And I'll talk to you then, Leo.
 Oh, don't forget.
 Go ahead.
 Now I was going to say that we're
 going to talk about the second family of symmetric--
 we ran out of time last time.
 And all we were talking about so far
 is what's called stream ciphers.
 That is the idea being that you have a message.
 And for example, you use a pseudo random number generator
 or even a one-time pad to generate
 a stream of randomness that you mix in with your message
 to create a stream that cannot be decrypted.
 And then you reverse the process to get it back.
 That's one family of encryption.
 The alternative is called a symmetric block cipher.
 And that's really-- I mean, there we're
 going to see when I quickly run through a list of them,
 like two fish and blowfish and AES and Rhindol and those things.
 Those are things people have heard of.
 And those are really today's workhorse encryption.
 So that's for next week.
 That's for episode 33.
 Meanwhile, we're reminding everybody
 that they can get 16 kilobit versions of this
 and all our other security now podcasts, plus transcripts,
 thanks to Elaine on Steve's site, grc.com/securitynow.html.
 This program is-- and all of Steve's labors
 have brought to you by his fabulous program, SPINRITE,
 which is the ultimate disk maintenance
 and recovery utility.
 I just recommended this the other day to somebody.
 It's a must-have if you work with hard drives.
 And you can find out more about that now at SPINRITE.info,
 a brand new site just for you.
 SPINRITE.INFO.
 We also want to thank our good friends at AOL
 for providing us with the bandwidth
 and for broadcasting this show on their podcast channel
 on AOL Radio.
 That's AOL.com/podcasting.
 And thank our donors who make this show possible without you.
 We couldn't produce security now and all the other fine twit.tv
 podcasts.
 If you're not yet a regular contributor,
 we encourage you to visit the site twit.tv
 and press one of those donation buttons.
 The donation, as little as $2 a month,
 really makes a big difference in keeping us running.
 And frankly, now's a good time.
 Our expenses are high, and I'd sure
 appreciate a little help here.
 So that's twit.tv, twit.tv, and you'll see those PayPal
 donate buttons right there on the front page.
 Steve Gibson, we'll see you next week.
 Ride our Leo thing.
 Take care.
 We'll see you all next Thursday for another "Security Now."
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
