 (upbeat music)
 - This is Security Now with Steve Gibson,
 episode 37 for April 27th, 2006, our crypto wrap-up.
 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by
 AOL Radio at AOL.com/podcasting.
 Security Now is brought to you by
 the Staro Corporation, makers of the
 Staro Security Gateway, on the web,
 at ASTARO.com.
 - Hello, Steve Gibson, Leo, good to be back.
 Good, weird to see you.
 Actually, I'm sitting across from you.
 We never get to do it that way.
 - Yep, not so often now.
 - It's fun though, I'm glad you're up here in Toronto.
 We're recording call for help and as usual,
 taking our lunch break in the studio to do security now.
 - Yep.
 - And it's been, I think, one of the top subjects
 we've covered, we've been covering crypto
 for the last four or five episodes,
 and it's been really great.
 - Well, I love it because these are technologies
 that we're all now using literally in our daily lives
 on the web, and even though the deep math side
 is deep, the basic concepts as we've been showing
 are really easy to understand.
 So it's funny, I got a really neat piece of email
 from someone who actually works at the CIA
 who said people were looking at him funny
 when he was giggling, listening to the podcast.
 This is a few weeks ago when we were explaining
 about the Diffie-Hellman Key Exchange
 and how people could use exponentiation
 as the one way function.
 It was easy to exponentiate the reverse
 is to do an exact or a discrete logarithm.
 And what he loved was he had that aha.
 Like, you know, he got it, and he was giggling
 walking through security at CIA headquarters
 because he's listening to security now.
 - I don't know if you saw this, but apparently
 there was a mystery kind of solved
 on the grounds of the CIA this week.
 There is a sculpture that was at the,
 kind of in the grounds of this headquarters
 at Langley, Virginia, and it's been there for some time.
 For 16 years, people have been puzzling
 over the last part of it, the most of it.
 The first three, their fourth sections,
 the first three sections had been deciphered in 1999.
 But ever since the last 16 years,
 this fourth section has remained a mystery.
 Will the sculptor announce Jim Gologli
 that he, or actually, Jim Gologli had solved it.
 The sculptor's name is Jim Sanborn.
 He actually devised this with a retired chairman
 of the CIA crypto center, Edward Scheit,
 announced, oh, I made a mistake, a boo-boo,
 there's an extra X.
 - Oh my gosh.
 - So, the puzzle, the crypto puzzle,
 that, I mean, there's websites devoted to it.
 They've been, everybody has been working on this for years.
 - Had an error in it.
 - Had an error in it, and it actually changes,
 he put it in for aesthetic reasons.
 It actually changes the message in the third section
 by just a few words, and now they're going back
 to work on the fourth section.
 It's actually kind of a neat little thing
 that has turned into a bit of a game at Langley,
 so that's kind of fun.
 - That's very cool.
 - Yeah.
 - So there's a little crypto going on there.
 - Yeah.
 - So, we were talking, we've talked about pretty much
 everything. - Is there anything left?
 - Well, there are some interesting details
 and sort of loose ends that I wanna talk about.
 You know, we started off talking about symmetric stream
 ciphers like RC4 used in WEP and talked about the problems
 and the benefits of it.
 It's very fast.
 The problem is you can't ever safely reuse the same key
 because we know what happens if you use a one-time pad
 more than once.
 Then we talked about block ciphers and how much stronger
 they are that they're a little slower than stream ciphers
 but still much faster than asymmetric crypto,
 which is what we then talked about,
 the whole public key technology.
 And then finally, we talked most recently
 about cryptographic hashes, the idea of taking a document
 and distilling it down, whether whatever kind of message
 it is, distilling it down into a cryptographically strong,
 essentially sort of a token that is a signature
 or a fingerprint of that document.
 So those are sort of the foundations for a lot of this.
 Now, people that have been following along
 have been writing in lots of stuff
 and some of the questions that people have had
 have been common.
 So I wanna talk a little bit, follow up a little bit
 on the asymmetric crypto side and talk about primes
 'cause there were people that suggested, well, okay,
 in terms of sort of like brute forcing prime factorization,
 why couldn't you just have a table of all the primes?
 Of course, we were talking about the CIV of Aratosthenes
 a couple of weeks ago that is basically a table of primes.
 So I wanted to address this issue
 'cause a lot of people have wondered about it,
 just talking in terms of like how many primes there are.
 The sense that I think people have is that primes are rare.
 - It seems like they are.
 If you looked at a table of 10 by 10 table, 100 numbers,
 there were only a few primes in there,
 there may be 30 primes.
 - Exactly.
 And so I think that's what led people to believe,
 well, if there aren't that many of them,
 then why not just pre-compute them,
 do a table of them and try them all.
 - And in fact, there are books of prime numbers.
 You can find these.
 - Well, yes, they don't go up that high.
 The thing that we lose track of is, again,
 and I've talked about this many times in the last few weeks,
 the notion of magnitudes.
 We talk about 128 bits, 256 bits, 512 bits,
 but these magnitudes that this many bits represent
 are phenomenal.
 So a couple things.
 There's this Pierre de Fermat, the Fermat test,
 that back in the 1600s, he showed how to find primes.
 And there's also something called the prime number theorem
 that talks about how many primes there are.
 Okay, given 512 bits for a prime,
 there are fewer atoms in the known universe
 than there are prime numbers of 512 bits and fewer.
 - So they're quite a few.
 - Yes.
 - Wow.
 - So that's the point.
 - You can't make a book that big.
 - Exactly, no one is gonna do a table.
 - More atoms. - You couldn't search it fast enough
 or test it fast.
 - Exactly.
 More atoms in the universe, I mean, I'm sorry,
 there are more primes of 512 bits or lower
 than there are atoms in the universe.
 - So that's why you use long numbers.
 - And it turns out it's not hard.
 We were talking about the computational burden
 of creating those.
 Now, when we talk about an RSA key that is 1024 bits long,
 what that actually refers to is the two prime numbers.
 When you multiply two 512 bit quantities,
 you get a 1024 bit quantity.
 That is, you sum the bit lengths
 when you multiply two binary numbers.
 - Oh, that's interesting.
 - Okay.
 - So the 1024 bit asymmetric key.
 - Which is a pretty typical key size.
 - Which is a very secure key size.
 - I use 4096, so I mean, you can get bigger.
 - Well, let's talk about this.
 - Let's stay with 1024.
 - Let's talk about this.
 First of all, what's really interesting
 is you know how we talked about the Diffie-Hellman key exchange
 and how the one way function there is exponentiation.
 'Cause it's easy to exponentiate.
 It's incredibly difficult to reverse that and do a logarithm.
 That is an exact or a discrete logarithm.
 Well, what's fun about the RSA public key technology
 is the one way function is multiplication.
 - That's pretty simple.
 - Just multiplication is good at that.
 And the reason is that so the reverse,
 the reverse factor is factoring,
 but really it's just division.
 You wanna take this one large number,
 you need to determine what the two primes were.
 - And then divide them.
 - Exactly, if you knew one,
 you divide that by the total and you got the other.
 - The key is knowing the one.
 - Well, exactly, or knowing either one of them.
 And now we know it's a 512 bit pool of data,
 so that's a lot of possibilities.
 - Well, it's a lot of possibilities.
 I did some research because I thought it'd be fun
 to get some sense for the difficulty
 of doing prime factorizations right now.
 Okay, a recent record for factoring just 512 bits
 that is a 512 bit number that was composed of two primes.
 And this is just a couple years ago.
 So each of the primes was 256 bits long.
 A team used 292, so almost 300 off the shelf PCs
 and it took them five months
 to do a prime factorization of 512 bits.
 Now, we know with a brute force attack on symmetric keys,
 where you have like 128 bits as symmetric key,
 we know that every time you add a bit,
 the difficulty doubles because if all you can do
 is brute force, you have to try them all
 or try until you get lucky.
 But every bit you add doubles the number of possibilities
 'cause you had all the ones before with that new bit off
 and all the ones before with a new bit off.
 - That makes sense, okay.
 - So each bit doubles.
 It turns out that factorization doesn't double
 when you add bits just because of the nature
 of the space that we're trying to explore.
 Every bit you add increases the difficulty
 or the length of time to find a prime factorization
 between 1.035 and 1.036.
 So not that much harder, okay?
 1.035 or one, two--
 - Let's say between one.
 - One point, no, no, it needs to be more than one.
 - Oh, yeah, one is not harder at all.
 - That wouldn't get any harder.
 So it is getting harder, but not that quick.
 Partly, it turns out though,
 if you, now we know how hard it was to factor 512 bits.
 If you multiply that amount of hardness
 by 1.035 512 times when you add another 512 bits,
 so now we're up to a 1024 bit.
 Now we're at somewhere between three and 30 million years.
 Based on the fact that it took five months to do the 256.
 - Exactly.
 - Holy cow.
 - So we know very clearly how quickly it gets harder
 and we know how hard it is for the one we've done.
 So we know that factoring a 1024 bit,
 which is sort of standard strength.
 Here's this 4096.
 Now you can, knowing now how much harder it gets,
 you could compute how many millennia it would take.
 - Longer than the life of the universe remaining.
 - So people should just know that a 1024 bit number
 will take between three and 30 million years
 using state of the art technology to factor.
 - What this underscores is if it's gonna be cracked,
 it's not gonna be cracked by brute force.
 It's gonna be cracked because somebody discovers
 a new way to find primes.
 There's some mathematical discovery that changes this.
 That's the only way.
 - And you know in terms of difficulty,
 it's gonna be cracked because somebody found
 the slip of paper you wrote it down on.
 - That's much more likely frankly.
 - Exactly, I mean, it's like this technology
 just simply works.
 - I mean, it's theoretically possible though, isn't it,
 Steve, that some mathematicians somewhere
 laboring in obscurity could,
 maybe even somebody at for me did at the NSA,
 could have found a better way to factor primes
 that makes it infinitely easier.
 - That's why people that do crypto as a career,
 they are always careful with their language.
 They say this is believed to be secure.
 - Yes, and they say, as far as we know, the difficulty is,
 but they say as far as we know,
 because they always allow the possibility
 that something could be discovered.
 - But on the other hand, this is a branch of mathematics
 that is pretty well-known, has been worked on
 since the time of Eratosthenes.
 It's not a new mysterious area.
 - I mean, as we've said earlier, grad students
 have cut their teeth in math, trying to come up
 with new, fancy ways to do this.
 Now, one thing we haven't talked about
 with public key technology is this notion of key recovery.
 That is, you create a key pair
 that's got a public key and a private key.
 We know that because of the way this is typically used,
 you wanna publish your public key.
 You wanna put it out there so people can encrypt things
 to you or so that you can encrypt things
 and they can decrypt it using your public key,
 knowing, proving that it was from you,
 or like decrypt something that you signed
 to prove that it was you who signed it.
 So in every case, the idea is that the private key
 is kept private, that is, you don't disclose it.
 What happens if you lose it?
 Because, I mean, that's a concern.
 - That's a hard drive.
 - Right, it's on my hard drive.
 - Well, if it's on your hard drive-- - It's on a USB key
 that I used to transport it around.
 - That you might lose, or your hard drive could crash.
 So it's not so much a matter of losing control of it
 as, say that, say that, for example, a corporation
 had issued certificates, and we'll talk about certificates
 here later in this episode.
 We're gonna talk about what a certificate is.
 But the idea, they had issued public keys
 for every one of their employees.
 And the employees were signing their documents.
 They were using these extensively.
 Now an employee loses, for whatever reason,
 their hard drive crashes, they lose their token or something.
 - Hey, I'll put myself in that group.
 I've made over my lifetime about eight different keys,
 and I've lost all but the last couple.
 I can't revoke those old keys, that's gone.
 - Well, so imagine that a company wants to sort of store
 all of these keys somewhere safe.
 - Safe, yeah.
 - But, remembering like in the Cold War era movies
 where the captain and the first mate on the submarine,
 - Strategic Air Command.
 - Yes, Strategic Air Command.
 - They have two different keys.
 - They have, you know, around their neck underneath
 their shirt is the land you're--
 - And they both have to turn them at the same time.
 - Exactly.
 So the idea being you don't want to allow one person
 who might go crazy or be compromised by a foreign government
 to be able to launch the missiles.
 You want to require two.
 Okay, so similarly, in a big organization
 where you've got lots of public keys,
 you want to somehow put in a database the private keys
 in case somebody truly does lose theirs,
 you want to do what's called key recovery.
 How do we recover the key?
 - Now I should point out that if a bad guy gets my private key,
 he still needs to know a passphrase to be able to use it.
 So it isn't sufficient for him just to have the key.
 - Well, but the concern is not that you lost control of it.
 The concern is that you lost it.
 - I lost it.
 - But I'm just pointing out that losing control of it
 isn't necessarily the end of the world.
 - Correct, 'cause you need a passphrase to use it.
 - But losing it completely is the end of the world.
 - Lost one.
 - Yes, so you could send me messages I can't decrypt
 'cause I no longer have the private.
 Or you're no longer able to sign your messages
 'cause you use your private key for signing messages.
 So we need a way to allow those keys to be recovered.
 Now, say that we took the private key
 and chose a big random number.
 Well, chose a symmetric key size random number,
 which we know is like 128 bits.
 So we choose a random number,
 we symmetrically encrypt the private key with that
 and we store it in our big database.
 Okay, well, we've only kind of shifted the problem
 'cause now we have a symmetric key.
 - We can't lose.
 - Which we can't lose, which we need to use
 in order to decrypt the private key
 that we're trying to store.
 Now, okay, say that we had two people
 and we needed them both.
 Well, you could take the 128 bits.
 - Split in half.
 - And split in half.
 - That's good.
 - And give them each 64 bits.
 - Yeah.
 - I need you and you need me.
 We can't decrypt with that.
 - Exactly.
 The problem is now each of them have 64 bits of the key
 that is now they only need another 64 bits
 and that's no longer strong.
 'Cause we know that 64 bits can be brute force attacked.
 Not soon, but it's still possible.
 It gets worse.
 Say that, okay, now we have another problem.
 Say that we've split the key in half
 and one of the people we need is on vacation.
 We can't get ahold of them.
 They're into heaty.
 Okay, so now what we want is we want
 a more sophisticated system where say, for example,
 any, we need two out of three people
 who can be present in order to decrypt our database
 in order to get back the keys.
 Well, that would require that we take our 128 bits
 and split it into three pieces
 and give each of the three people two different chunks of three.
 Okay, so like the first person gets pieces one and two,
 the second person gets pieces two and three,
 the third person gets pieces one and three.
 Now that means any pair of them have all the bits.
 But now we've made that prior problem even worse.
 - 'Cause now it's only 43 bits
 and it's really insecure.
 - Exactly.
 Now you actually are getting to a level
 where it's been cracked.
 40 bits has been cracked.
 - Yes, so we got to scrap this whole idea.
 - That idea.
 - Now here is a concept Leo.
 This is one of those.
 I mean, our friend who works at the CIA
 is gonna be giggling as he goes through security.
 This is just a toe curling concept.
 - Okay.
 - Okay, so imagine we want a system
 where any number of people can be given information
 such that some, any group of them that we decide
 are necessary to, almost like voting.
 They all, they get, and we would call them our key trustees.
 So they're gonna, we're gonna make them
 the trustees of the database.
 We don't want to allow any few of them
 to be able to access the data.
 We need a majority of some sort in order to access it.
 Okay, let's just take the case of two people.
 We already saw that we can't just give them
 each half the key because that's no longer secure.
 - Okay, we know from geometry that--
 - Oh, that's where I go south.
 - No, no, no, this is good.
 - We know from geometry.
 - And you're gonna be able to visualize this.
 - I'm closing my eyes now.
 - Okay, we know from geometry that a line
 is defined by two points.
 - Yes.
 - That is, any two points and you draw a straight line
 through it.
 Okay, now imagine we have an XY grid, a Cartesian coordinates.
 And the line, we just draw a line.
 It crosses the Y axis at the key.
 That is, the value where it crosses is the key.
 - Got it.
 - Okay, now, if a single point is on the grid,
 we know that there's an infinite number of lines.
 - It could just rotate around that point.
 - It could rotate around that point.
 Two points define the line.
 - That's one only.
 - And we choose, so we draw a line that crosses
 through the Y axis at the key.
 Now, we assign as the secret points on the line
 so that two people each get a point.
 - But nobody has two points.
 - Nobody has two points.
 - So nobody can decrypt it.
 - And what's cool is you could assign
 as many different people points on that line
 as you want to.
 And so what this means is any two,
 so you--
 - But the point is a pair, right?
 A point is an X and a Y coordinate.
 But that, the coordinate by itself,
 provides no information about the key.
 - Because it also has an infinite number
 of possible crossings of the Y axis.
 - Exactly, one point and an infinite number of lines.
 But any two points, now you can compute--
 - You can draw a line to the Y axis.
 - You can draw a line and get the key.
 Isn't that neat?
 - It's really slick.
 - Okay, so now, say that you want--
 - So we give out a bunch of these points.
 - So you just give out points on the line.
 - And any two people, any two people who receive points
 are able to recover it.
 - Oh, that is so cool.
 - Now, say we want to make it a little more fancy.
 We want to require three people.
 - Yeah, how do you do that?
 - Slope.
 - Three points, define a parabola.
 'Cause think about it, if you have a curved line,
 as we know, the two points is now a family of parabolas,
 but a third point nails the parabola.
 Three points to find a parabola.
 So all we do is we create a parabola that passes through--
 - The Y is the picker or the trough of the parabola.
 - It just passes through.
 And then all we need to do is pick points,
 we can assign as many points as we want on the parabola,
 giving those coordinates to people,
 and three of them have to get together
 in order to recover the key.
 - So here's our stumper for the week.
 - Isn't that cool?
 - What if you want four people to have a key?
 - Well, it turns out that this is completely generalizable.
 Parabola is a curve of second order,
 and you are able to do infinite number of curves.
 - Infinite number of curves.
 - Order curves.
 So it's simple polynomial math.
 - I love it.
 - And it allows people, it allows you to distribute
 the knowledge such that you can completely define your policy.
 How many people have points?
 How many of those people have to share their points
 in order to unlock a key?
 - And so this is how key recovery works.
 - This is one of the predominant key recovery techniques.
 - What is that? - What is cool?
 - I just love that.
 - That is really slick.
 - Well, the final thing to talk about
 in this whole series is certificates.
 We've glanced on certificates,
 we've talked about web server certificates,
 and in PGP land, we've talked about personal certificates.
 Someone did right saying that thought
 is still making available free personal certificates.
 - Yeah, they reduced the amount of time
 you can use it for and so forth.
 - They were purchased by Verisign,
 and they've changed, thought used to be really
 and can almost a nonprofit,
 they really were supporting free email certificates.
 There's pros and cons to the way PGP does it
 and the way certificates do it, and I have both,
 but I like PGP, I do.
 - One thing I didn't realize, but again,
 I've been sort of extending my reach recently,
 and that is that SMIME, secure MIME, is there,
 and it's in all of our email readers.
 - And PGP uses SMIME.
 - Okay.
 - Can use SMIME, doesn't it?
 - Well, and because it is--
 - So what is SMIME?
 - SMIME stands for multi-purpose internet mail exchange,
 which is a well-defined format
 for creating non-textual content and messages.
 - So a binary file.
 - Exactly, if you have an attachment,
 that's actually a so-called MIME type that is defined,
 and there's an encoding that moves the binary into text
 so that it's able to move through the email system.
 Anyway, we're gonna do an entire podcast on SMIME
 in the future, 'cause I've wondered,
 that's an option in my PGP, use SMIME,
 and I've never known why or--
 - And it's in everyone's copy of Outlook Express.
 - Built in.
 - And so you're able to get a certificate
 and add that certificate to Windows,
 and then turn on SMIME, and in fact,
 you can add the public certificates of people
 you correspond with, and your client
 will automatically encrypt the mail
 if you're sending it to someone who certificate you have.
 So it's very cool, we're gonna explore it in detail,
 but what is all this certificate?
 Okay, the problem with public keys is that they're public.
 I mean, the benefit is they're public,
 but what if somebody claimed that,
 you know, what if Joe claimed that Alice's public key was his?
 - Right.
 - I mean, he could make the claim
 because Alice published her key.
 I mean, the value of it is that it's public.
 - Or worse, Joe could create a key that says he's Alice,
 and you'd have no way really of knowing
 that it wasn't Alice's key.
 - Well, yes, that's a very good point.
 It's, the problem is that keys themselves
 have no identity, keys are just a blob of bits.
 As we know, they're--
 - I can assert that it's mine,
 but you have no way of proving it.
 - Exactly, so here is what a certificate is,
 and I love it for its simplicity.
 A certificate is nothing, but the binding,
 and we'll describe what that means,
 the binding of identity information to a public key,
 that's what it is.
 - And using a trusted third party.
 - Well, that's where this binding comes from.
 But even stepping back from that,
 'cause you don't need a trusted third party
 to have a certificate.
 - No, I can make my own certificate,
 but it has the same issue.
 I can make my own certificate.
 It's not really a binding.
 - So what a certificate is, it's the binding
 or the association of identity information of some sort.
 Your name, your address, your company, whatever it is,
 to a public key, to give the public key some identity.
 Now, the veracity of that binding,
 that is what people consider that information to be worth,
 is who is standing behind the representation.
 - So for instance, in OS X and many other operating systems,
 I can create a public key, I can create a certificate,
 both of which have really no authentication
 because I'm asserting that they're mine,
 but anybody else could do that.
 You could create one that says it's you,
 that you're the same value.
 - Exactly, so that's where the trusted third party is.
 - So in order to give a certificate value,
 you need somebody to vouch for it.
 You need somebody to say, I know this person,
 this person has proven that they're who they say they are,
 and this is their public key.
 - It's kind of like a notary public.
 - When you sign a document and you go to a notary,
 this notary is entrusted by the state
 to look for your driver's license or whatever.
 - To do the due diligence, they have stamp and so forth.
 So here's the process, an individual produces
 a public key pair that of course,
 as we know, has a public key and a private key,
 and they produce their own identity information
 and whatever they need to do to prove
 that this identity information is valid
 within the constraints of their application.
 They sign a what's called a certificate request
 with their private key.
 Now we know that that can only be verified
 with their public key.
 So they sign the certificate request with their private key,
 never giving it out, but they sign it.
 The reason they do that is so that the so-called
 certificate authority can verify that the public key
 they're providing is matched with the private key
 they use to sign the certificate.
 Therefore, they're proving when they sign this
 that they actually own the private key.
 - Both sides of the key.
 - Both sides, exactly.
 So the certificate authority takes the identity information
 and the public, this user's public key
 creates a message like we've talked about before,
 makes a hash using hashing,
 and then the certificate authority signs that
 with their private key.
 So basically you're having a third party sign
 your assertion that this is your public key
 and your identity.
 - That's the equivalent of the notary stamp
 saying yes, this matches.
 - Right.
 Now, then the next part of this is so okay,
 what we've done is we've created a certificate.
 That is the certificate.
 Now to verify that, we need, since the certificate was signed
 with a certificate authority's private key,
 we need their public key in order to check it.
 Well, our browsers and our operating systems
 come with a like 30 or 40 public keys
 with long expiration, it's like 2020, 2040,
 I mean way in the future.
 So they're saying this certificate is valid
 through this length of time,
 and it contains the public key of the signing authority
 who verified.
 - And these are people like Vera's sign and thought.
 - And thought, and even the U.S. Postal Service
 has a certificate that is available.
 - I trust them.
 - Yes.
 - I know they're gonna be around for a while.
 - Yes.
 And so that's really the way this functions now.
 - I should mention that as complicated as that process sounds,
 it's actually automated by most email programs,
 it's pretty straightforward, they send you an email
 and you get it back.
 - Exactly.
 And in fact, a dialog box pops up,
 you fill out the form, and the public key gets made,
 and it all happens just easily.
 - The free ones generally, the only thing they verify
 is the return email, is your email address,
 because they send it to your email address.
 The paid ones may get more information from it.
 - Well, and for example, as someone who has a bunch
 of web server SSL certificates.
 - Same idea, right?
 - And it's a server certificate.
 - Same as emails. - Because exactly, someone's connecting
 up to GRC over a secure connection,
 and somebody is asserting that this is really GRC
 they're connected to.
 And so when I get my certificates from Veracine,
 they look me up in Dunham Bradstreet,
 there's a fax and a phone call and an email loop,
 they go through some trouble to verify
 that this is really who I'm claiming it is.
 - Now, PGP, which doesn't use a certificate system,
 has a little kind of less reliable system
 called the web of trust. - The web of trust, right.
 - And if you use a PGP key, the first time you use it,
 it's kind of untrusted, and what you hope is that people
 will, as they get your key, and know, oh yes,
 I know this was an email from Leo,
 will go to the server and sign your key and say,
 yes, this is Leo's key, and eventually your key
 will be signed by enough.
 People that the level of trust would be quite high.
 - And that's a cool system.
 I mean, it's sort of the way Google works
 by ranking sites based on the ranking of sites
 that link to you. - Recursive system.
 - Yeah, there's a web of link quality endorsement
 as opposed to like a web of trust.
 - In fact, as we mentioned, people often have PGP
 key signing parties where they all get together
 and sign each other's keys, which I think is a great idea.
 - In order to create an immediate veracity behind the key.
 - Somebody suggested, because I'm actually using a new key,
 'cause I lost some of my old keys,
 and I don't think it's signed yet.
 And somebody suggested, oh, well, you should do
 a podcast key signing party.
 I haven't figured out quite the logistics
 of how we would do that.
 I don't think we could.
 I was thinking, oh, maybe I could give out a code word
 on the podcast and they could send me stuff,
 and but I haven't figured that out yet.
 I do get note now, thanks to this though,
 a lot of encrypted mail because people know I use PGP, right?
 And it's, I've have quite a few email buddies,
 and I'm sure the NSA is looking carefully
 at all of this encrypted traffic.
 - All this encrypted traffic coming and going
 into it from Leo.
 - Well, and that's one of the arguments
 for more people using PGP and other encryption technologies
 is because right now if you're using the red flag,
 but if everybody's using it, then it's just,
 it's like using an envelope in your mail, you know?
 If everybody sent postcards and suddenly
 you started sending mail with envelopes.
 - What's he trying to hide from us, right?
 - So let's all please start using envelopes if you don't mind.
 So that really wraps up all of the fundamental technology
 of crypto, there are some cool things
 we will be talking about in the future,
 although we're gonna change topics now
 and go on in different directions.
 But we will in the future talk about how SSL works in detail,
 how PGP works, how secure mine works,
 and you know, other things, because after all,
 we're here talking about security.
 Now with this, this set of fundamental tools,
 we can talk about symmetric keys and private keys
 and hashes and people will know where we're coming from.
 - Isn't that great, isn't that great?
 - Steve's, of course, the guy behind Spinrite,
 a fantastic program for disk maintenance and recovery.
 We encourage you to visit grc.com
 and get your copy of Spinrite.
 If you've got a hard drive, you need Spinrite.
 And of course, Chonos for security now
 are available at grc.com/securitynow.
 - And transcripts.
 - Thanks to Elaine, we've got transcripts
 and 16 kilobit versions for the bandwidth impaired.
 All at grc.com/securitynow.hcm.
 We also invite you to visit our fine sponsors,
 Astaro, makers of the Astaro internet gateway.
 They're great in Astaro security software.
 I just got my 120.
 - Oh, cool.
 - And I'm setting it up and it just gives you
 this sense of security that's just fantastic.
 - Well, 'cause it is a managed system, right?
 - Yeah.
 - So it's a router, but it's a router running
 open source software with, and you know,
 these are by subscription, but you get antivirus,
 you get anti-spam, and it's really great.
 - And it's being updated transparently
 as their database grows.
 - You could try a free version.
 In fact, there's a home version that's absolutely free
 at ASTARO.comastaro.com.
 But I might mention somebody pointed this out
 that you can get the free version, put it on an old box,
 but for 79 euros a year, subscribe,
 and you get to any viruses, anti-spam,
 automatically updated, I mean, frankly,
 compared with the other antivirus, anti-spam solutions,
 that is very economical.
 That is probably the way to go--
 - And a protect your entire network.
 - Your whole net. - Without needing
 something then on every one of your machines.
 - That stateful inspection firewall,
 I mean, this is top notch security.
 ASTARO.com.
 So I guess we'll be back next week
 with more fun security information.
 I sure we will, we've got lots more to do.
 - It's great to see you in Toronto.
 - Likewise, we'll see you all next week,
 next Thursday, for security now.
 ♪ Security now ♪
