 [MUSIC]
 This is Security Now and Steve Gibson, episode 36 for April 20th, 2006, one dozen questions.
 Bandwidth for the Twit Network is provided by AOL Radio at AOL.com/podcasting.
 Security Now is brought to you by Astaro, makers of the Astaro Security Gateway, on the web at www.ast.com.
 Yes, it's time, once again, to plumb the depths of the dark side of the net security.
 Virus is spyware.
 But the man who invented the term spyware, coined it, who first discovered it, Mr. Steve Gibson.
 Hello, Steve.
 Hey, Leah, great to be back.
 We've been having so much fun.
 And here we are in our 36th episode.
 Wow.
 I know it's got more than half a year of talking about security issues, sometimes timely.
 But a lot of times, really kind of education, we've just completed a big series on crypto,
 which has been great.
 Yep.
 And in fact, next week, we're going to talk about the applications, all of the ways those
 five basic building blocks of cryptography can be assembled in order to achieve the things
 that people really need to get done with security on the net.
 But as usual, on our every fourth episode, our modulus for episodes, as we call them,
 since this is 36, we answer your questions.
 And Steve's got a lot, we've got a dozen, an even dozen questions to actually, really
 a baker's dozen, because like most good programmers, you start with question zero.
 And that's James from Auckland, New Zealand, who wrote to us with a real world, WPA cracking
 experience.
 WPA is the encryption technology you recommend for Wi-Fi base stations.
 Yep.
 In fact, you said it's the only safe way to protect your Wi-Fi.
 But James said, this morning, I won't do this in a Kiwi accent.
 I'll leave that to your imagination.
 This morning, in a security seminar I attended, there was a demonstration on cracking a WPA
 pre-shared key, which took me a bit by surprise.
 And I remember you were talking about WPA and how it was virtually unbreakable, provided
 a strong key was used.
 What I didn't know was how easy it was with the right knowledge to brute force a weak PSK
 pre-shared key.
 For this demonstration, the presenter used Linux and a few freeware tools like Christmas,
 Airplay, Etheriel, and cow patty.
 I love that name.
 He showed us how it's possible to capture data from the four-way handshake at the start
 of a session by sending 12 packets masquerading as the originating from the access point to
 a station that basically it blips the connection for a fraction of a second, causing the station
 to re-initiate, and this is the key, the four-way handshake.
 They exchanged EPAL, EAPOL packets were captured by Etheriel, analyzed in another program where
 the pre-shared key, in this case, a really dumb one, one, two, three, four, five, six,
 seven, eight, was found in about, get this, 60 seconds.
 The whole process took less than five minutes.
 I just thought that was interesting, and an extension and practical demonstration as to
 what you were talking about regarding WPA and the need for really, actually, good random
 passwords.
 Well, and James posted this, and I was delighted to see it because it basically says everything
 we talked about when we were covering our Wi-Fi stuff, I mean, even mentioning that an existing
 connection could be induced to re-establish, re-authenticate itself to the access point
 that would allow somebody who wasn't there at the beginning to capture the credentials,
 and then also how WPA, that is WPA, the best encryption you can get for Wi-Fi right now,
 how WPA is prone to an offline attack, and that's exactly what James described, where
 a theory was used to capture that transaction and then offline the machine cranked on it,
 and because it was such a dumb password, I mean, they used one, two, three, four, five,
 six, seven, eight, it didn't take it long to try one, two, three, four, five, six, seven,
 eight offline and see that the resulting credentials matched up, and that allowed them then to
 access basically decrypt all of the conversation that they had been recording in the past and
 in the future.
 And really, two, two, three, four, five, seven, six, eight, wouldn't have been that much harder,
 it's just really, besides being non-random, it's really short.
 Yeah, I mean, you know, and again, that's why I've got my passwords page at grc.com.
 If people just go to grc.com/passwords, my server generates really, really good WPA qualified
 passwords.
 And I mean, you can't type them in, you just got to cut and copy and paste them, but nobody
 will ever get them.
 They're what?
 64 characters long?
 63, actually.
 63.
 So that's as long as you can be, and if you have totally random 63 characters, brute forcing
 that is next impossible.
 That's just not going to happen.
 Nathan Clark of Allendale, Michigan has been pondering public key cryptography and asks,
 after listening to security now 34 Steve, a couple of episodes ago, I don't understand
 why it's not possible for the private key to be inferred from the public key.
 I mean, why is it someone couldn't encrypt something with a public key, then try to decrypt
 it with every possible option?
 I realize it would take a long time, but is the reason it's impossible because it would
 take an unrealistic amount of time, or is it impossible for some other reason?
 That's a good question.
 No.
 I really like that question.
 Yeah.
 It is absolutely possible to do that, but these public and private keys are like 1,024
 bits long.
 I mean, they are really, really long, and it's necessary.
 I mean, it's, you know, we're used to as a society now talking about the distance of
 galaxies and, you know, how long the universes existed.
 I mean, you know, we sort of become inured to really, really large quantities, but two
 to the 1,024 bits is an insanely large number of possible combinations.
 And so, yes, it would be possible as Nathan suggests to try every possible private key,
 making up private keys, but I mean, that you just, you know, you'd be dead before you made
 much headway at all.
 This is pretty closely related to the previous question, that it's not, it's not, it's randomness,
 of course, is important, but really length combined with randomness is what gives you
 an imperviable key.
 Well, in fact, I think we've got a question here, here today, that talks a little bit
 about that.
 So, we're on our way toward that.
 Good.
 Doug from New York, right?
 Since both of you is, myself included, use Skype, we're using Skype right now.
 Yep.
 After several failed experiments with other clients, is there, we keep coming back.
 Skype seems to work the best.
 We've tried a number of different things, including ventrilo sounded really good, but
 the lag was killing us.
 Skype is just, it sounds pretty good, and there's no lag.
 Anyway, he says, "Is there any truth to the fact that our bandwidth is being stolen, stolen
 by Skype, even when we're disconnected?"
 I've read reports that this is not uncommon if you're not behind in that.
 What about when we're behind in that?
 Personally, I've not noticed any slowdown in my day-to-day activities, but would I notice
 anything unusual?
 He's talking about the fact that Skype is a peer-to-peer application.
 Well, actually, it's a little worse than that.
 Skype is peer-to-peer so that, for example, you and I have UDP internet traffic going
 directly between us, but actually, that's because I have given Skype a fixed port that
 it can use to forward traffic through.
 Oh, should I do that, too?
 Well, no, because you've got a more well-behaved NAT router, I've got a misbehaving NAT router,
 which technically is a little more secure, but it doesn't make a big difference one way
 or the other.
 But the only reason you and I are able to go direct is that I have established a fixed
 port for Skype to use.
 What happens for most users is, and this is an annoyance with Skype.
 If they're behind some older routers, for example, if I hadn't done this, then Skype
 will use someone else's copy that happens to be running and is logged into the Skype
 network as a forwarder.
 This is the so-called super node.
 Super node, yes.
 And there's no way to turn it off.
 There's no way to tell it in the options not to do this.
 It's simply, if you've got a computer not behind a NAT router, well, of course, in that
 case, you pretty much deserve what you're going to get, or also not behind a firewall,
 then that is, if you've got a machine which is able to accept unsolicited connections
 into Skype, the Skype network determines that, and it will use your computer and your bandwidth
 to forward other people's conversations.
 Does the whole conversation go through you or just a handshake?
 No, the entire conversation.
 And so, the reason it doesn't work for you and me Leo is suddenly then we get quality
 degradation and basically, instead of going point to point, we're going through that third
 party, they didn't give us permission, and the latency of our packets is increased also.
 So, you know, what I liked about Google Talk was that they use their own servers in the
 case that they were unable to do a direct peer-to-peer connection.
 Skype doesn't.
 They use unsuspecting users' computers.
 But, again, only if you don't have a firewall or you're not behind a router because they
 can't.
 That's the whole point.
 They're kind of fixing a problem with people behind routers and firewalls.
 Right.
 So, the idea would be that both of us would make an outbound connection to that third party,
 and that would allow our traffic in order to go back and forth instead of doing that
 traversal.
 So, when I set people up for a Twitter or some of the other podcasts, I should ask them
 if they're behind a router and if they're not, I should say, "Get a turn on your firewall."
 Really?
 Yeah.
 You ought to make sure they're behind a router.
 Now, one thing you could do, Leo, that hadn't occurred to me, you might not, you know,
 because you and I have been talking about Skype and you were saying that it works well
 with us, but you had some problems using it with everybody else.
 If you did establish static port forwarding and assigned a port to Skype, much as I have,
 see, I've done it in order for you and me to have a direct connection, that would guarantee
 that you had a direct connection with anybody else who you were Skyping with.
 So, I should probably do, and that's something I can do locally that would fix everything
 generally.
 For everybody else?
 Yeah.
 Is that in the advanced?
 Where is that?
 It's in there.
 I'll have to find it.
 Oh, probably under connection.
 Yeah, there it is.
 So, by default, it uses port 4868, it looks like, but I could change that.
 You definitely don't want to use the default.
 Right.
 I'll never want, it says here, use port 80 and 443 as alternatives for incoming connection.
 Yeah, that's something different.
 That's for secure.
 That's...
 Yeah.
 So, for what it's worth, if we do have people who are using Skype, who are finding that
 the quality is less than you, for example, you and I get Leo, they could establish static
 port forwarding, but they're not going to want to leave Skype running all the time, or they'll
 find that it ends up being a server for other people.
 Oh.
 So, if you use...
 Okay.
 But that's only because they don't have a router.
 If you use static port forwarding as you are, Steve, that doesn't mean you're getting used.
 I don't know.
 Because I had never leave it running, I started, you'll never find out.
 Yeah.
 Well, that's good.
 I mean, it's not a security issue as long as Skype is secure, but it's something good
 to know.
 Yeah.
 And I think I'm going to change.
 So, is there a port you recommend?
 I guess it doesn't really matter.
 I could use it.
 I can't say it on the air.
 Right.
 We want to say where you're used.
 You can generate some random number of greater than 1024, less than 65535, pick it and set
 up port forwarding.
 And I'll bet you that really solves your Skype problem with other people.
 And I don't have to tell you ahead of time it.
 I never want to know.
 And I don't want to know yours either.
 So, there.
 I could sniff our traffic and I would see which one it was going.
 Well, how do we then make a connection?
 Same way.
 It just figures it all out.
 It does.
 That goes through some server.
 The Skype server.
 Yes.
 You know, we're both logged on to a server in order for this thing to all work.
 And the central server knows our unique weirdo ports and it handles that.
 Yep.
 Very interesting.
 Jay Martin, Florence Alabama asks, I have a question about the time it takes to decrypt
 various bit encryptions.
 You give a certain amount of time for how long it would take to root force to cryptopassword.
 My question is, would your estimation of time consider that the actual successful password
 decryption is the last one tried? I mean, what if by chance the brute force decryption
 utility chose the correct password in the first short period into the process?
 Which is why you don't use one one one one one one one one one one is a password.
 I understand this is still a real strong security, but should this not be considered?
 I'm not sure.
 What is he asking?
 I'm not sure.
 Well, it was really interesting.
 And it's a very good point.
 It's that, you know, we're dealing with statistics and the idea was when we have a certain bit
 length, then we're going to be trying different, for example, using symmetric encryption.
 We have 128 bit key.
 Well, one of those 120 bit combinations is the right key, only one of them.
 So he was saying, what if you hit that right off the bat?
 If you guessed it.
 What if you guessed right?
 And he's exactly right.
 You would crack it in a heartbeat.
 But people don't try because they figure, well, chances are it's not going to be the
 first one or the second or the third or the hundred thousandth of the millions.
 And again, there are, even though we would talk very glibly about 128 bits, if you'd
 raise two to the 128 power, that's how many possible combinations there are.
 The proper key is, in fact, hiding amid all of those.
 So it is there somewhere, but it's the fact that the chance of guessing it is so vanishingly
 small that everyone considers this to be safe.
 People don't spend time looking for needles and haystacks, even though they might just
 happen to look right at it.
 It's very small needle, or very large haystack.
 They look.
 I suppose though, it means you probably wouldn't want zero, zero, zero, zero, 128 zeros would
 not be a good password.
 But you don't know, I don't think anyone would start at, I don't know like what algorithm
 you would choose.
 Okay.
 I just did the math here.
 So 3.4 times 10 to the 38, wow, I mean, three comma and you know, four and then 37 zeros.
 That's how many there are.
 So assuming that we've just chosen one at random, you know, good luck brute forcing all
 of those.
 Although, as you pointed out in last week and the birthday thing, I mean, the chances
 are that it's not the last number you'd try.
 It's somewhere in the middle of there, right?
 Right.
 You don't have to try them all.
 You normally have to try half of them, right, in order to get there.
 John Whiting of rotherthum, rotherthum Yorkshire, let's just say Yorkshire, UK asks, I started
 to research digital IDs, regular regular, regular experiment with an email signing an
 encryption between my friends and me.
 Trouble is, Celia, you've got people doing this.
 Good.
 Good.
 Yeah.
 Trouble is you have to register and pay for most IDs.
 Mm.
 Well, okay.
 I'll address that.
 Seems Komodo is free for one year.
 Can I just manufacture my own keys to share and use with friends and relatives?
 Oh, oh, oh, this brings up a really, this brings up a whole issue of trust.
 That's fascinating.
 What I use in here, I put this in here for you.
 Yeah.
 Would I use a key generator?
 Like your perfect password generator, are there other free reliable digital ID services
 out there?
 This one's yours.
 Well, when you install programs like PGP, which is free, there's a free version.
 I recommend the GNU privacy guard, which is g-n-u-p-g-g-n-u-p-g.org.
 That's absolutely free and open source.
 It generates a key, but he raises a very important issue, which is you, only you at this point
 have asserted that this is your key.
 Right.
 And it's, you know, I could, I could create a key that said Steve Gibson and assert that
 that's your key.
 So the way that we make these keys reliable is through something called signing or trust.
 It's the, it's the chain of trust.
 In fact, there are people who have, and from time to time that you might go to one of these
 PGP key signing parties where they'll go and you'll be there with your driver's license
 or your passport or some ID and, and they'll sign your keys.
 And of course, the more people who have signed your key to say, yes, I, I know this is John
 and this is his key, the more trusted your key will be.
 And of course, in, in this mode, it's, it's called a web of trust, web of trust.
 That's right.
 Because we have a whole bunch of people and the idea being that, you know, we, we build
 up a web of trust because everyone has a, has proven their identity to each other in a large
 network.
 And so that, that as a network, it carries some weight as opposed to, for example, buying
 a credential from, from Komodo, for example, as he cites where, where then you are, you
 are going through some, some process to prove that you are who you are.
 That's what they call third party signing, a trusted third party.
 Exactly.
 What are we talking about next week?
 And that, that does cost you generally, although thought for a while until thought was bought
 by Veruson offered free email certificates.
 And I imagine you could still get free email certificates somewhere.
 And, and that one is verified in the sense that they mail you the certificate and you
 have to validate that, you know, you have to say, yes, I got this mail, I got this address.
 That at least validates that that address is yours.
 Although, I mean, it's, it's still conceivable that somebody could spoof it to some sort of
 man in the middle attack, intercept your email and say, yes, I got that at that address.
 So really, I mean, it's, it's only slightly more trusted.
 If you get a key from the, the key servers, you'll, there'll be a degree of trust in there.
 And you can, by the way, if you, if you correspond with somebody, you can, and you know it's them,
 you know, you, you're pretty sure it's them.
 You can sign their key.
 You can go online and sign their key and say, yes, I, you know, I want to validate that
 I know this is, this is a, who it says it is.
 And so that's, that's, there's a trust database.
 You know, I think it's a really beautiful system, but that is a flaw, isn't it?
 Yes.
 Somewhere, ultimately, no matter how far back you go, somewhere, there's something you
 are relying on.
 Right.
 So, you know, even for, for example, web certificates, when, when we get SSL certificates, in order
 to establish secure web communications, and I have to do this every two years for, for
 example, GRC in order to, in order to allow people to connect securely to my server, I'm
 going through some hoops, they, they check my, my done in Bradstreet, phone, fax, address,
 you know, I mean, there is some process that I go through to assert that I am Steve Gibson,
 Gibson Research Corporation, GRC.com, then I get this, this, this certificate.
 But, you know, it's, it's not an absolutely foolproof process.
 So at some level, something needs to be trusted.
 Yeah.
 And this is why I don't update my key or change my key frequently, because if somebody, you
 know, by now I've been using my key long enough, it's, it's signed by a lot of people.
 So you know, it's, you know, it's fairly trusted.
 Vincent Ragosta, writing from Pittsburgh PA wonders, why are there non-routable IP addresses?
 Why, why, why, in the middle of my trace route output?
 In fact, how could it get there, does this indicate my ISP is performing that routing?
 If the ISP is performing that routing, how am I routing?
 How am I able to run servers that are accessible from the internet?
 So I guess he's doing a trace route and he's seeing things like 10 dot or 192 dot 168
 addresses.
 Right.
 Right.
 And in fact, I've seen that myself.
 If I've done trace routing through my Cox cable modem connection, I'll see a few IPs that
 are public and suddenly it's like falls into this 10 dot space where it goes, you know,
 maybe five or six hops into 10 dot and then it comes back out into the public space.
 This is commonly done by, by large ISPs because they don't want to burn up or consume their
 public IP space.
 Those public IPs are the only way that, that they're able to offer those IPs.
 So if an ISP has got lots of network gear internally, they may use non-routeable IPs,
 you know, the 10 dot or 172 or 192 dot 168 space just in order to like identify their
 routers internally to each other.
 So they're able to move traffic among them.
 But once the traffic then crosses back out into the public space, of course, it returns
 to a well-known public IP.
 So this doesn't, does not mean that the ISP is necessarily using net routing.
 It doesn't mean that they're not for sure, but, but what it really is is it's just a
 way for the ISP to be, be conserving their use of what is a relatively scarce resource,
 namely public IPs.
 They don't want to burn them up on their own equipment.
 They want to make them available to their customers.
 But how does it route if it's this private address?
 Well, the idea is that the equipment inside has routing tables.
 Oh, it knows.
 Exactly.
 It knows, hey, we're sending this off to our Albany office or off to our San Francisco
 office.
 And you know, that's a 10 dot something and San Francisco is a 10 dot something else.
 So the internal routing tables know how to get the packets within their internal space
 back, you know, like toward their destination and at which point the packets then cross
 into the outside world.
 Okay.
 That makes sense.
 Does it, he has, how am I able to run servers?
 Well, that's not an issue because the traffic just there, their local routers are doing
 the handoff.
 Right.
 And in fact, we may remember that four weeks ago, we did answer a question similar to this.
 Some guy was had his ISP delivering his private IP space to him 192 dot 168 and he wanted
 to run a router.
 I mean, a server, excuse me, but he couldn't because he didn't have a public IP from his
 ISP.
 His ISP actually had him behind their own big net router.
 And I have seen this before, but that is not the case.
 If an ISP is simply using private IP space internally and many do.
 Robin Robertson of Roanoke, Virginia asks, I'm curious about log me in dot com.
 If I'm at a public Wi-Fi hotspot and use my laptop to access my home desktop via log
 me in, which is a remote access solution, then surfing internet through my desktop, am
 I safe?
 I'm probably confused, but I think their take on UDP is the opposite of what I heard you
 discuss in security now.
 Okay.
 Well, log me in is a little bit like go to my PC in that it is, it establishes a secure
 connection to their servers and then they will connect to something that you've got running
 at home.
 So essentially you're securely connecting to them and your home system is also connecting
 to them.
 And so the log me in service, very much like go to my PC creates this bridge that allows
 you from, for example, a public Wi-Fi spot to connect to your home desktop.
 So the question, am I secure?
 Well, you're secure in your traffic out of the danger zone, which is the public Wi-Fi
 hotspot.
 Or for example, if you were, if you were using log me in in a hotel to get to the log me
 in servers, you are, and that's really what you're trying to achieve with this.
 You're trying to get your traffic out of an area where it is in danger.
 Now if you then connect to your home system and use the internet from there, well, then
 your traffic is unencrypted as normal internet traffic is, for example, you know, standard
 pop or IMAP mail and web surfing and so forth unless you are using an SSL connection.
 So it's sort of a combination answer that the area of greatest danger where you're in
 Wi-Fi or hotel in any kind of a public setting, that's encrypted and so you're safe.
 But in general, once you've left that encrypted tunnel, then your traffic is available just
 like everyone's is on the internet.
 So you're exactly as safe as you would be at home.
 That says it in what?
 Five words, yes, no more, no less.
 John in Australia believes that his SSL connections are not safe.
 Oh, oh.
 He says, I've made, I've had the misfortune to be hijacked through crypto.
 My details were grabbed.
 And when I see an encrypted page, the hackers also see what I am seeing and he suggestions
 on how they're doing it.
 I've tried using XP and Linux and it still happens perplexed since you say it can't be
 done.
 Now I get variations of this question all the time on my radio show.
 And I think it's just people who are confused.
 I put this in here because I too have seen the question and I'm confused by the question.
 He says he's used both XP and Linux and it still happens.
 Unfortunately, we don't know exactly what it is.
 He says that hackers are able to see what he sees.
 So I don't know how you would know that.
 Exactly.
 So we would really ask is what are the symptoms of this?
 Yeah, my first thought was that if there were something evil installed on his machine,
 then for example, a keystroke sniffer or something running on the machine, then that would be
 a way of there being a problem.
 The fact that he says he's tried it with Windows and Linux though, because he's got
 this cross platform edition that makes me more skeptical about something evil going on.
 The fact is, as far as anyone knows, SSL connections are themselves really secure.
 If you're being spied upon, it's not because they're cracking into that connection.
 Now there is an exception though, which is the other reason I put this question in here
 today because when you connect to a remote server, you are accepting the credentials of
 the server which has been signed by someone who signed their certificate, like we were
 talking about briefly before about Veracine, for example, signing GRC's certificate.
 Some corporations do want to proxy and filter and literally, basically decrypt and be able
 to read their employees encrypted traffic.
 So what they do is they run a proxy server in their corporate environment which has a
 certificate and every browser in the company has been told to trust that certificate.
 So essentially, the encrypted traffic is decrypted at the corporate border, yes, it's decrypted
 at the corporate border and then essentially filtered, proxy checked for spyware or even
 for naughty content.
 I mean, they could do anything they want to.
 Once they've got your connection decrypted, then it is re-encrypted using a certificate
 that every corporate browser has been deliberately installed with in order for the browser not
 to complain.
 So employees may believe they have encrypted and secure SSL connections when in fact it
 is being decrypted in en route essentially and by their corporate firewall or IT staff
 or proxy server for whatever corporate reasons.
 Wow, is that sneaky?
 Oh, wow.
 And it's hard to tell what he's talking about.
 He may have been fished and in that case, you're not on the site you think you're on.
 So that could be what's going on too.
 We can't really tell from the question what's going on.
 But the bottom line is SSL, real SSL is secure.
 Exactly.
 If the endpoints are authenticated and I keep using the A word authentication, authentication,
 authentication, that's the key for so much of what glues this together.
 Max Smith writes from nearby Los Angeles, Steve has indicated several times he doesn't
 have a virus scanner installed in his Windows based computer.
 Why is that?
 Is the performance improvement that much significant over running with virus scanning on it or
 is it just because you're a macho tech guy who could spot dangerous email attachments
 from a mile away or have virus scanners essentially become obsolete since the days of everybody's
 sharing floppy disks besides email attachments and Outlook email scripts.
 How do most viruses get on PCs nowadays?
 I should, by the way, say I don't run in general, I don't run an antivirus.
 No, no, no, neither you or I do.
 And most security experts, I know don't.
 I know.
 And it's so it's, you know, here we are telling everyone run antivirus yet we don't do it ourselves.
 No force on earth could make me open an attachment I receive in email period.
 I mean period, really, it just it just doesn't happen.
 I just, I know who's writing me email.
 I know when I'm expecting something, you know, you and I will talk Leo and I'll like, I'll
 send you a doc file.
 You know it came from me.
 You know, you know, I did.
 I opened this Microsoft Word document that you just sent me boy.
 I trust you.
 Yeah.
 And so I mean, that's what it's about, but, but other stuff, I mean, I've never had a virus
 infection on my machine except once when I was doing some virus research and I was sloppy
 and, you know, it happened to me.
 But in that case, I was running on, you know, on a red machine on a deliberate viral research
 machine, not connected to anything else.
 So I was prepared for that happening.
 But I recommend people run antivirus if they want to run antivirus because certainly they're
 useful, they can catch bad things.
 And Lord knows, I mean, I'm seeing email that is full of this junk all the time.
 I just don't touch it.
 Steve's a trained professional.
 Don't try this at home.
 By the way, there's another vector.
 You mentioned attachments, but there's another vector for viruses that in fact is very common,
 but you're not susceptible to that either.
 HTML email.
 Right.
 So, if you're using Outlook or Outlook Express or Thunderbird or any email program that does
 HTML displays a web page in the preview pane, depending on how patched your windows is and
 what exploits there are out there, that's also a vector of infection and has been in
 the past.
 But Steve rejects, actually rejects HTML email.
 I don't do that, but I just turn off the preview panes.
 Well, and I also have my email reader.
 I'm still using Eudora, and one of the options is use the Windows viewer or use a text viewer.
 And I just use a text viewer because, again, I don't need web pages being emailed to me.
 There's a third vector which is less common of virus infection, and that's worms, network
 worms.
 How do you avoid those?
 It's essentially, I'm behind a very, very strong firewall.
 You and I don't run personal firewalls, but we're both behind routers.
 I'm behind multiple layers of routers, and so there's just no exposed open ports.
 Right.
 In fact, if you ran Windows built in firewall, even that would be adequate to prevent Sasser
 and Blaster and Zotob and all these networks.
 Well, and that's why Windows XP after service pack two was released is really been doing
 a much better job.
 I mean, the exploits and the security problems we're seeing now with Windows are coding
 errors, buffer overflows that are, you know, seem to be in a never-ending stream.
 I mean, I'm not that unhappy that Vista has been delayed because it'll just be a whole
 new fiesta of security problem.
 Let's get it right.
 Well, it's like XP was in the beginning.
 And of course, there is another way that you can get viruses, and that is via floppy.
 This is how we used to get it.
 You know, the micro-angelow or micro-angelow.
 Sneaker net, yeah, where somebody would accidentally boot to a floppy.
 But those days are gone.
 I don't think you see those anymore.
 You know what I would recommend, and I think that I know you probably don't do this, Steve.
 We don't run what we're saying, what I'm saying anyways, I don't run an email scanner in the
 background all the time because I do feel that that slows me down.
 And I know I'm not going to open an attachment, but I think it's prudent once a week or once
 every few weeks to scan with a good antivirus to make sure you haven't accidentally caught
 something.
 Sure.
 Yeah.
 I have done it in the past when my system has gone a little strange.
 Just in case.
 That's the key for me is if something seems weird, then it can cause me to just do a static
 scan of my system, right?
 The thing that is troubling is that now email has attachment saying this email scanned by
 such and such, you know, is like, okay, well, anything that was going to be a virus would
 just stick that on there.
 It's completely meaningless.
 Oh, yeah, don't don't just don't open attachments.
 I mean, that even if you have an antivirus, it's just a bad idea.
 I mean, what if it's a virus that just came out and your antivirus hasn't got the signatures
 yet?
 And that's all the case.
 I have a friend who runs a an embroidery shop that is usually computerized embroidery
 and they're constantly receiving pictures and patterns and data from people they don't
 know.
 That's an example of a high risk environment where it's reasonable to say, okay, we have
 to for our business open attachments from people we don't know.
 You can imagine like, you know, any sort of a graphic service is going to have to be doing
 this too.
 So there they want an isolated computer and do the best job they can of making sure that
 what they open isn't able to spread through the network.
 And as a matter of fact, these people, these friends of mine are constantly rebuilding
 their machines because they're just just overrun with viruses.
 You know what I like into is the kind of public health recommendations you get.
 For instance, there's a general public health recommendation to not eat too much sodium to
 reduce the sodium in your diet.
 Well, in fact, the truth is that some people are genetically predisposed to high blood
 pressure due to salts and some aren't.
 Some people don't have to worry about it, but you're never going to hear that health
 experts say some people have to worry and some don't.
 It's not prudent to say that.
 It's much more prudent to say just avoid salt and wherever you can, wherever you can and
 because you don't know if you're, I guess, if you're susceptible.
 So we're kind of, I would say we're like health professional, Steve, avoid, avoid salt, folks,
 even if you're not susceptible.
 Mike Smith, I'm sorry, that was Mike.
 This is Willem from the Netherlands.
 And I do say, by the way, that we have some great listeners in the Netherlands, in Sweden,
 in the UK, all over the world, and we just love that.
 Willem says, "I just listened to your podcast about symmetric and asymmetric cryptography.
 I'm employed in the field of PKI SSL and user certificates.
 What is PKI?
 It's PKI."
 Public key infrastructure.
 So most of the items are quite familiar.
 Note, I'm not an expert on theoretical crypto itself, but I'm more into the usage of PKI
 in corporate environments.
 The kinds of things we talked about last week with the signing and things like that, apply
 cryptography.
 There was a part where you talked about SSL, and that for every SSL session, a new symmetric
 key exchange is being done.
 Five or six years ago, I overheard something about the way Microsoft handles SSL connections.
 It seemed that Microsoft, well, IE in particular, does not renegotiate for every session, but
 caches the session key for a period of time.
 That way, new sessions establish more quickly from your PC.
 And older hardware, of course, is to speed up your browser, but it might impose some security
 risks.
 Comments?
 Well, that's interesting, and it's a really great question.
 It turns out that this so-called SSL session caching is part of the spec, and it's happening
 to all of us all the time, and it's not a problem.
 To back up a little bit, just to review the way SSL secure sockets layer, now called TLS,
 transport layer security, the way this operates is it uses a public key system to exchange
 a randomly generated so-called session key.
 So when you're computer through your browser, it wants to connect to a remote web server,
 they negotiate a random number securely using public key systems like we talked about last
 week, and this creates a so-called session key, which they then use for their symmetric
 encryption, which can be done very quickly.
 The problem is that this happens every time an SSL connection is established.
 That is the endpoints go through this whole process.
 Well, as we talked about before, public key negotiation, the whole asymmetric key system
 is a thousand times slower than the bulk symmetric key technology.
 So if connections are being set up on a server with hundreds of thousands of clients, this
 can be a real problem.
 It's been a problem, in fact, so much that there are hardware accelerators which commercial
 web systems can employ to move some of this brute force public key technology into hardware
 just to accelerate it.
 So it's really not to speed up the client computers, to speed up the server?
 Well, yes, it's because both ends are doing a lot of work, but the real burden is on the
 server that is accepting web connections at tens of thousands per minute from tens of
 thousands of end users, but it still is a lot of work.
 So in the SSL spec, they specifically have this idea of a session ID, which is different
 from the session key.
 So both ends will cache their keys.
 So the idea is that if I'm, for example, contacting Microsoft, and I want, I establish
 a secure connection to them, we will go through the labor intensive, time intensive, public
 key system to establish a random secure session key, and we associate that with a session
 ID, that is known, the session key is kept private at each end.
 So then if we drop the connection and then soon after reconnect, for example, I click
 on another link on their secure site, we don't go through building a whole new session key
 because we both have the one we obtained before in our own caches.
 So we say, hey, how about if we reestablish this session ID, but since no one else monitoring
 the connection would have known what that is, because we each have it privately, each endpoint
 is able to say, oh, yeah, sure, let's keep using that one.
 And so for example, the typical, I, the typical session key expiration is 10 hours, which
 may seem like a long time, but it's completely secret to each endpoint.
 So there's no security risk at all.
 There really is no security risk.
 It's, I mean, these keys are long.
 They're 128 bits.
 And as we know, that's 3.4 times 10 to the 34 different combinations.
 So I mean, there's plenty of combinations and no one is going to crack that in a short
 period of time, and then the keys are always expired after their, that maximum length of
 time and a new key is renegotiated Matthew and normal Illinois is worried.
 I recently heard that the Mozilla Firefox browser plant spyware on your system.
 I'm a loyal user of Firefox and was wondering if there's any truth in this, I would prefer
 not to have to switch back to Internet Explorer, but I cannot continue to do this.
 If it plants spyware on my system, well, no, that was a bit of an urban.
 One myth that went around recently.
 I think spread by Microsoft.
 I don't, that's ridiculous.
 Well, there were actually there was a, there was a, there was a, it was a, some sort of
 a weekly spyware newsletter that, that unfortunately had this as like a big, bold headline, then
 the register that you know, that outfit in the UK picked it up known for their journalistic
 intent.
 Exactly.
 And anyway, it's scared a lot of people.
 So I wanted to, because I saw this a number of times I wanted to make sure people knew
 that this was not the case.
 There was, it was just a complete mistaken, you know, basically completely false story.
 You will get spyware checkers from time to time will report false positives.
 Microsoft's defender says, for instance, that spybot is a, or at least for a while, so the
 spybot was a piece of spyware, of course, it's not, it's a very good anti spyware program.
 And I, I think that that's just, you know, false positives.
 Well, and in fact, one of the reasons that, that anti spyware programs often claim that
 each other are anti spyware is not any kind of an anti competitive thing.
 It's that sometimes they have to contain the patterns themselves that they're looking for.
 So that's in their, in their own code, exactly.
 So it'll see a pattern that, that, that it's, it's looking for, it's a, wait a minute,
 this might be spyware when in fact it is anti spyware.
 Now Matthew might say, well, how can you be sure that this is how you can be sure Firefox
 is what we call open source?
 All of the source code, every bit of what Firefox is doing is available for your download
 and perusal.
 You can look at it.
 You can see exactly what it's doing.
 There's no part of it that is not completely exposed and visible.
 Now you may not be able to read the code, but there are plenty of people who can.
 And I assure you, there are thousands of eyes looking at this.
 And if there were the slightest hint of spyware in there, you would know about it.
 Yeah.
 It would never happen.
 That's actually the beauty of an open source program.
 You can't really assert the same thing of a closed source program.
 Although that does speak to making sure you get your programs from an authoritative source.
 For example, if you downloaded your copy of Firefox Mozilla or Mozilla Firefox from,
 you know, some random website somewhere, you really then have no knowledge what it really
 is.
 You want to make sure you always return to the source.
 That's where those MD5 hashes we were talking about last week come in handy.
 You could really validate that that's real.
 Well, exactly.
 But again, only if you're validating against a real MD5, you could have a bad guy would
 create the bad MD5 and say, hey, here's my copy of Firefox is downloaded and make sure.
 Yeah.
 In fact, because it's open source, it would be fairly easy for somebody who was a bad guy
 to take Mozilla and add spyware code to it.
 As a matter of fact, Leo, many people through the years have asked me why I don't publish
 the source code for all of my freeware security utilities and it's specifically for that reason.
 Even though somebody could certainly recreate the look and feel of my stuff because it's
 really pretty simple, they could do it from scratch, I'm certainly not going to help anybody
 by giving them the source code and then, you know, have fraudulent copies of GRC stuff
 floating around.
 That's a very good point.
 A very attentive listener, Dave Chisman in the UK asks, I have a slight confusion from
 the episode on asymmetric crypto.
 You mentioned that a vulnerability with public key crypto was that the chosen text attack,
 that is encrypting text with a public key in an attempt to work out the text.
 I'm confused.
 I thought you said the public key crypto was only used to encrypt the key for a symmetric
 crypto scheme.
 If that's the case, then the chosen text attack is surely as difficult as brute forcing the
 symmetric key if not harder as you have to guess every possible key that encrypted.
 Well, that's a good point.
 I love this point.
 That's why I put it in here.
 He is absolutely right.
 So just to restate what he said again, remember that what I stated was that asymmetric crypto
 had a problem since one of the keys was public.
 You could potentially use the public key to feed in your own plain text and see what
 the public key encrypted that to and then compare that to what somebody's unknown key
 had encrypted it to.
 I'm sorry, I said that wrong.
 You were trying to guess, I'm sorry, you were trying to guess a private key.
 And you knew what the private key had encrypted something to, so you would be able to use what's
 known as this chosen plain text attack in order to feed your own stuff through.
 He makes the point that we, as we know, we only use asymmetric cryptography to encrypt
 a symmetric key.
 So essentially where we get confused here is I was talking not about the dual use of
 asymmetric and symmetric crypto, which does solve this problem exactly as David has suggested.
 I was sort of stepping back further earlier in my discussion of just pure asymmetric cryptography
 noting that that's a problem that asymmetric crypto has because one of the keys is known,
 whereas symmetric cryptography doesn't have this problem because the symmetric key is
 always kept private.
 I mean, that's the only way it makes any sense.
 So really this is an explanation of why PGP and these other crypto techniques use both
 symmetric and asymmetric.
 Well, actually they use both because asymmetric is a thousand times slower.
 Oh, it's also speed.
 Yeah.
 So you just can't afford to use asymmetric crypto on your whole message.
 It's so much faster.
 Even if you could, it would be, it would be open to this plain text cipher cracking method.
 Yes, you would.
 That's a very good point.
 So the way that's resolved and I talked about this also in our asymmetric session is you
 add some random stuff to what you're encrypting.
 That way, nobody else can encrypt the same thing because they'll only know, you know,
 like the part of what it might be that you are encrypting, not a bunch of other random
 bits.
 And that'll just completely throw them off.
 But it's kind of unnecessary because it is symmetric key we're using, right?
 I mean, right.
 So that even even there, there's no play there, you cannot use this plain text crack
 on symmetric encryption or because you know, you can't because you don't ever have the
 symmetric key.
 And that's, that was David's point.
 You needed to have it.
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 Theodore, our last, our last question, Theodore Phillips from Chicago, Illinois asks, I now
 feel like I kind of understand public key cryptography.
 Well, except for one thing, I thought it was also very hard to determine what numbers
 were prime.
 Where does RSA get these two giant prime numbers that it uses?
 How does it know?
 They're prime.
 How does it calculate them on the fly?
 I thought that was hard.
 Does it have a table with a lot of, a lot of prime numbers?
 Does it go to a prime number warehouse on the web?
 Well, I know there are an infinite number of prime numbers seems you'd like you to need
 a lot of them handy to make this work.
 If RSA only had a small pool, well, that'd be a security issue.
 Yep.
 A really good point.
 And a lot of people have wondered the same thing.
 They've wondered, okay, how, why couldn't you just.
 For example, pre-compute a whole bunch of prime numbers.
 And if you're relying on prime numbers being hard to factor, just try factoring with a
 whole bunch of prime numbers that you've figured out ahead of time.
 And the reason is, there are too many prime numbers to do that.
 I mean, it's, it turns out- But how does it find these base prime numbers to make this
 product a prime?
 It actually does compute them.
 It figures one out.
 Okay.
 In fact, when I was part of the process of setting up open VPN that we will be returning
 to when we talk about the GRC's open VPN guide, part of the process is you build your
 own keys and you can see it.
 I mean, I'm using a three gigahertz P4 with a gig of RAM, I mean, a really fast machine.
 It sits here putting dots on the screen, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot,
 so it turns out that I mean, it's hard to create primes, but hard in this case is a
 relative term, you know, it's harder than adding numbers together, but it's a problem
 that has been solved by the crypto guys so that machines are able to generate their own
 pride. And you don't only have to, you know, you only have to do it once when you're creating
 the key, you don't do it over and over again. Exactly. It's a one time thing. Now, it's
 interesting. I also created what's called a Diffie-Hellman key pair as part of this.
 And there I wanted it to be, I wanted a 2048 bit key pair. That's also part of what open
 VPN uses. I don't know how long it took. It was like, it was like a day. Wow. I mean,
 it cranked and cranked and cranked. So I mean, as you tell it, you want longer primes, you
 got to be prepared to let that computer sit there and cook for a while for it to come
 up with it, you know, it's own unique set of prime numbers. I wonder. I mean, you may
 remember in the early days of computing, we would benchmark with the Eratosthenes sieve.
 The sieve of Eratosthenes sieve. Yeah, with the prime number generator. But, you know,
 I doubt they, there must be other algorithms for generating primes.
 In fact, the Wikipedia has a really great page on prime numbers. So if anyone's curious
 about this, go to Wikipedia or just put in generate prime numbers into Google. And one
 of the first links is the link to Wikipedia's page where there's just a ton of really good
 information about prime numbers. In fact, in general, Wikipedia is a very good source
 on crypto and all of these subjects. There's a, there are a lot of crypto experts who contribute
 to Wikipedia. And yeah, I'm very impressed with their pages. Yeah, they've really done
 a good job. It's it's a very definitive and I think reliable encyclopedia, at least in
 that area on on crypto. I bring back some memories. The old era, sieve of Eratosthenes
 Wow. And remember you, you, you, the way you do it is you, you take a big grid that is
 all full and then you punch out every other one than every third one than every fourth
 one. Watch you for every fourth would already been punched out by every second. It's really
 an air brute force method of finding primes you eliminate non primes. Yep. And when you're
 all done, you end up with ones that have not been punched out. Are you the one that ones
 that weren't evenly divisible by any of the numbers that came before? So I guess you'd
 make what a pool of like, you know, 32,000 numbers and then eliminate them. Yeah. But
 we're, we're dealing, remember that when we're dealing with like 1,024 bit primes, and this
 is a good prime here. Well, we know how big it is. We did the math earlier 3.4 times 10
 to the 38. Wow. So, so that means we're talking 10. Okay. 38 digits, 38 decimal digits. And
 there are, I mean, there are that many primes. So these are, these are really, really big
 prime numbers. And our, our, our technology today has the ability to generate primes that
 are that size and know that they are primes. There are a tuss and he's would be proud,
 proud. He'd be, he'd be, he'd have a sore finger from punching out all the holes in his
 sieve. Steve, we've had fun. This has been great. I love doing this every fourth episode.
 We answer your questions, keep them coming and keep coming back because another security
 now next week, we're going to continue with crypto, but this is applied crypto. This is
 taking all the components that we've discussed in the last four weeks and putting them together
 in all kinds of neat ways. For more information about our topic for transcripts and of course,
 a 16 kilobit version for the bandwidth impaired, visit grc.com/securitynow.htm. Also the home,
 of course, of Steve's wonderful spin right, the ultimate disc maintenance and recovery
 utility pays Steve's bills visit spin right.info for more information. Well, and more importantly,
 if, you know, if you've got a computer, which is hiccuping, really, I would encourage people
 just to take a look at some of the testimonials at spin right dot info, that'll give people
 a sense for what spin right can do for them. And then, you know, if any time in the future,
 they're in trouble, consider spin right call call Steve grc.com.
 And that's it for this edition of security now. We'll be back next week. I hope you
 will too for Steve Gibson. I'm Leo LaPorte. We'll see you next Thursday for security now.
 Security now is brought to you by Astaro, makers of the Astaro Security Gateway, on the
 web at www.astaro.com.
