 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by AOL Radio at AOL.com/podcasting.
 It's time for another security now that means another foray into the fascinating world
 of computer, internet, security, protecting your system, how encryption works, how ports
 work, how VPNs work, all of that thanks to our great teacher and master, the guru of
 high tech security, Mr. Steve Gibson.
 Hey Steve.
 Hey Leo, great to be back with you this week.
 I think more and more people think of you now as a teacher, and you've been so great
 on these past 45 episodes, 46 now, teaching us about all the basics of this subject.
 Well, I just love the technology and I've never understood why people seem to think that this
 stuff is so difficult.
 Well, now wait, now some of it is, and when you've done your darndest to explain public
 key cryptography and even a dunce like me gets it, it's more a testament to you than
 the simplicity of the subject.
 This stuff can be pretty complicated.
 Well, I guess it's that there is an easy way to see the concepts.
 One of the things I've noticed, you're reading an academic paper and the language is so obtuse
 and so confusing and you look at it over and over and over or read it all the way through
 and then it's like, wait a minute, all they're really saying is this, it's like they're trying
 to justify their third PhD or something.
 It's like, wait a minute, I could have said that in one paragraph and made it so that
 my mother could understand it instead of like four pages of bizarre Arcania, which really
 seems intended to confuse rather than explain.
 And so I think even no matter how complex something is, if the goal is to explain it,
 it's possible to make it clear, so I think that's really your skill is reading all this
 arcane and confusing stuff and boiling it down.
 So what are you going to boil in your pot today?
 You know, one of the things that I get questions about, I mean, I have for years and the form
 at the bottom of the security now page at GRC is constantly getting questions about router
 logs.
 People are worried about what their logs are telling them.
 Do all routers keep logs, not all of them.
 I think all contemporary routers now offer the option at least.
 You might have some off market junior routers that don't, but logging is just something
 that's now on the bullet feature list of any router that's going to be competing with
 all the others, and they want to give you the option of logging.
 So what's in that log?
 Well, mostly nothing, I mean, and a lot of nothing, and that really is the problem.
 Now, you know, we've talked before about the junk on the internet and I've talked about
 how I coined the acronym IBR, Internet Background Radiation, I mean, it's really what this
 is.
 This packet noise is just Internet background radiation.
 The router log is exactly equivalent to the personal firewalls, which pop up an announcement
 anytime, anything unsolicited hits your computer.
 Well, it's always seemed to me that personal firewalls were doing this because they wanted
 to prove themselves, I'm useful, I'm doing something, you know, and of course, exactly
 and of course, the problem is that that in, in crying wolf as much as personal firewalls
 do until you finally uncheck that box that says, you know, notify me when anything wrong
 happens.
 You finally say, okay, I trust that the firewall is on.
 I don't want to know about it every five seconds.
 But I mean, it really is the case that there is just this junk on the internet.
 Now, now the routers have gone a little bit further, I think, because they're trying to
 alert users, you know, they're saying that they're firewall enabled, they're stateful
 packet inspection, they're doing all this fancy stuff to protect their users.
 I mean, some routers even say they will protect you from a denial of service attack.
 Well, I've never run, exactly, I've never understood that claim because the problem,
 of course, that a denial of service attack is flooding your bandwidth with garbage, and
 the router could attempt some sort of filtering, except that the problem is there's too much
 data, malicious data coming to you for the good data to get to you.
 So the router can't filter what it doesn't receive.
 And the problem is that the denial of service is blocking access, basically.
 And how is the router going to stop that?
 Exactly.
 All any router can do that says it's going to do denial of service protection is to block
 traffic from getting through.
 The problem is no good traffic is able to get through anyway, and just blacklisting
 an IP in your network doesn't help, because even the machines that are not under attack
 all share the same IP, that is your router's public IP, which is being swamped by traffic
 to the extent that no valid packets are able to reach it.
 So I mean, these claims that the router manufacturers, I mean, Lord knows, you and I preach the
 security and value of NAT routers almost constantly because it's such a tremendous security tool.
 But them saying that, Oh, we're going to protect you from a denial of service attack is just
 nonsense, unfortunately.
 On the other hand, they certainly could log it and you'd see it happening, I guess.
 Well, and that's the problem is, and that brings us back to logs, is that what the routers
 are doing is trying to make sense of noise.
 You know, it's literally like tuning your AM radio in between stations and hearing the
 sh and and trying to find something of value in the static.
 So there's so much going on that it's not obvious what's what's really going on.
 Well, they're actually there's so much going on that there's nothing going on.
 I mean, that that's exactly what's happening is that, you know, we've talked before about
 how the internet will never be cleansed of worms of our old past generation worms, code
 read and nimda and so on and MS blast that copies of these worms are on machines, randomly
 out scanning the internet, sending basically creating internet background radiation on
 an ongoing basis.
 So every IP on the net is going to get some of these packets sooner or later from these
 machines.
 And there's even there's even misconfiguration of systems where packets that have no business
 being on the net strange protocols and broken things just sort of wander in to a machine
 from time to time.
 I mean, it's it's really instructive to put a packet sniffer on a on just like on a cable
 on a raw unfiltered cable modem line and just look at the junk that is coming in.
 Now, the problem is the routers don't the routers don't understand or they don't want
 to understand that nobody needs to be advised about this.
 I mean, the point I guess is if somebody is under denial of service attack, they know
 it.
 Yeah.
 And in fact, what I'm seeing online, exactly why I mean, I mean, it would be nice if a
 log said, Oh, look, you're getting all these packets pointed at you from this guy, bad
 guy, because then you would know, well, that's why I can't get online.
 What I have seen, however, is that based on the logs that people send me saying, what
 do you think of this?
 They'll they'll be a router that says they're in a denial of a service attack.
 And I look at the log and it shows that they're getting one packet about every five seconds
 from somewhere.
 Well, that's not a denial of service.
 No, I mean, that wouldn't deny anybody service.
 But the router again, in trying to justify itself and prove its value is is is aggregating
 this information and and seeing, Oh, look at all these sin packets that are coming in.
 Well, yeah, if you wait an hour and you've got, you know, 26 of them, well, that's not
 a denial of service attack.
 And so what's happening is people are are really being needlessly alarmed.
 I mean, some people, I guess, who want to watch their router logs after a while.
 It must be the case that they become inured to these kinds of reports and just go, well,
 okay, I think my router's a little, a little log happy here because I don't feel like I'm
 under denial of service attack and everything's just fine.
 Right.
 Even though the router assures me that I'm being attacked by somebody in China somewhere
 or or or who knows where, right?
 So it just it's just it's advertising.
 It's advertising for what a good job it's doing.
 Yeah.
 And for and I wanted to I just wanted to take some time, give it a podcast and talk about,
 you know, these net router logs.
 Is there anything you can glean from them at all?
 No, it sounds like it's a no.
 I really don't think so.
 Yeah.
 Sometimes you will get if your IP changes, you will start getting like, in fact, I remember
 seeing this myself, you'll you'll your IP will change and suddenly you'll start getting
 a lot more logging, for example, because the IP you just inherited belonged to somebody
 on the Kazah file sharing network or on on Morpheus or something.
 So there's all these people trying to log in to get there, exactly.
 And so suddenly all these peers that that that were hooked up to this IP, the belong
 to somebody else are now trying, you know, still, I mean, as I remember, because I saw
 this often back when I was looking this stuff closely, suddenly you'd have all this traffic
 and it takes a long time for that traffic to subside for for the the peer to peer network
 to decide that, okay, you really are gone and you're not coming back anytime soon.
 So you know, I never it's funny because I we had a bit torrent server once on my website
 and now I continue to get hundreds of hits a minute from other bit torrent clients looking
 for the tracker.
 Exactly.
 So I can vouch for that.
 Absolutely.
 Exactly.
 That's a perfect example.
 So so if people wonder why their traffic as being logged by their net router, sometimes
 is in huge dose and and sometimes much lesser dose it if if in fact they had their their
 router unplugged or turned off and then turned it back on, there's a chance they got a new
 IP that might have belonged to somebody who was much more active doing things in a peer
 to peer network.
 And so again, you'll get a ton of traffic and then it'll subside over time.
 So so the log might be useful for that.
 You look at your router logs.
 Is there something quantitatively different you get from your router than the standard
 links, this router will give you actually the only the only times I look at my logs are
 if there's something happening that I that I do need to know about.
 If something seems off or wrong, so there's something you're looking for then in the log.
 Exactly.
 I'm I'm trying to figure out specifically what's going on, but down at the traffic level.
 Now the other real problem with the logs is that they're incomplete.
 They it's sort of like a junior log that you get with most of these net routers.
 And so so often, for example, people will send me a chunk of logs saying, Hey, Steve,
 you know, what do you think this is?
 And and the problem is I can't tell nobody can tell because the router is sort of saying
 just enough to raise the question of of what's going on with, but with, for example, it isn't
 telling you what the TCP flags are of the packet coming in.
 It's just claiming that it's an attack of some kind.
 And so, for example, many times it's not it's got nothing to do with being an attack in only
 if we had a complete log entry.
 Could we then say for sure, ah, this is what this is.
 So so one of the differences between sort of a junior consumer log and you know, real professional
 network gear logging is professional network gear logging often tells you much more than
 you want to know, but at least you have you have what you need to know, whereas net routers
 are often not providing you sufficient information to actually perform any useful diagnosis.
 I mean, and that's my complaint is they're just sort of bubblegum logs.
 I mean, they're just, you know, they're they're just there to sort of add a feature to the
 router.
 Right.
 It this one logs it could be interesting, but actually it's one of the reasons it's one
 of the one of the benefits to going to like a real Unix or Linux system, you know, an inexpensive
 PC running net routing software.
 And we've talked about many of the of the standard off the shelf easy to configure like
 smooth wall and mono wall systems where you where those systems have have real logging
 facilities and there your first of all, one of the things they don't do typically is,
 you know, is bother you with trying to interpret their logs.
 The logs are there if something arises where you need to go look at them and they're complete.
 So that that's the kind of logging that makes sense, you know, log traffic if you want to,
 but if you're going to log it, log it completely so that something as of as useful and can
 be really determined from the log, but you know, this sort of this half measure of net
 router logging in standard consumer net router just makes no sense to me at all.
 It I mean, it is it is it is falsely positive alarming people and the information it contains
 isn't sufficient to provide any useful diagnosis.
 If you wanted to.
 Is it essentially the same kind of thing you get when you run a software firewall and it's
 popping up alerts every five seconds?
 Yeah, it's exactly that.
 And in fact, in in some cases, it's weird.
 I've seen I've seen situations where the the the a net router will alert somebody hours
 after they've been doing something on the net that causes the alarm.
 What must be happening is that the router is aggregating traffic trying not to produce
 multiple alarms, but it's like so it's like it's seeing through some things going on.
 Then it's deliberately waiting some length of time to see whether any more junk comes
 in that's associated with that same remote IP so that it can associate all of that into
 a single event report.
 The problem is that event report is then popping up at a time or presenting itself at
 a time which is disconnected from the user's actions, which may have caused that event.
 It makes it even more bad.
 That's another thing that confuses people.
 What is this?
 And so so someone will say, Hey, look at this log.
 And here's what happened.
 And it's like, Okay, well, there's nothing in the log you've shown me that's about what
 happened.
 So they'll go back several more hours.
 And there's the traffic hours before that caused this report.
 So I can understand the logic in the in the router manufacturer's mind.
 I mean, some router programmer thought it would be really cool, you know, like to wait a while
 so that multiple events for the same activity were not being reported.
 The problem is that induces confusion in the consumer's mind who doesn't understand what
 it why something happened now, you know, an hour after they haven't been using their computer.
 And the fact is that leads them to believe now they're under attack when in fact, it's
 something they were doing hours before when where if the report occurred, then they'd
 go, Oh, yeah, I know, I'm, I'm doing that.
 Right.
 I've got BitTorrent running or whatever.
 Yeah, exactly.
 You know, or peer to peer system or or something, which is causing these, these, these sorts
 of reports.
 So we talk a little bit about this internet background radiation and what it is you mentioned.
 And we've talked about before things like worms like Sasser and MS blast that just continue
 to float around as long as they're unintended, when an on a patch windows 98 machines in
 the net, they'll just continue to float around.
 Right.
 Some of it from hackers also, like, I mean, I get the impression that they're, they're
 kind of going around looking for vulnerabilities all the time.
 Is that true?
 You know, I think that is still the case.
 It seems it's getting less attention now.
 I think because there's so much noise on the net.
 It mean it used to be, for example, that, that's so called port sniffing, right?
 Exactly.
 Or port scanning.
 Right.
 It used to be that people who were watching their router logs and who were like, like
 took it upon themselves to police the internet, I mean, I'm not kidding.
 They would be when, when random packets from somewhere hit their machine, they would look
 up the ISP that owned that block of IP addresses and send abuse report email saying somebody
 in your network, just scanned my computer.
 How dare they remember getting callers like that?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 I mean, thank God, at least that has tended to subside.
 And the reason is no one could keep up with that anymore.
 Right.
 I mean, there, there's just so much stuff on the net, but it is the case that, that there
 are malicious people now and still scanning the internet looking for specific vulnerable
 ports.
 You know, we've talked about how, for example, my network, I, I just couldn't have tell net,
 the standard tell net port 23 open and exposed on, on my own network because the appliances
 that, that I could tell net to, um, didn't have sufficient and adequate security.
 So, um, so the idea would be that there are scanners running on right now somewhere, many
 of them in the world that are just slowly methodically sweeping the IP space of the net,
 looking for, for anyone who will accept a TCP connection on port 23.
 That means, oh, go ahead.
 I'm sorry.
 Good.
 No, I'm just saying I've seen these hacker tools, uh, whenever there's an exploit that
 comes out, uh, the hacker tool comes out and if they're very simple, I mean, any script
 kitty and that's the problem is that most of these aren't really proficient hackers can
 run a little program that says, okay, what IP addresses do you want to scan?
 Let's see one, two, one million, uh, and what ports do you want to attack?
 Uh, you know, here's a few and they press a button and they walk away and all of a sudden
 they've created a huge amount of chatter going out now, if they got in, they probably wouldn't
 know what to do.
 I mean, I don't know what they're going to do with that result, but well, and of course
 you the, the, the very same tools, um, uh, the famous one is end map, which is a very powerful
 tool, a very powerful scanner.
 I mean, if you put port scanner in the Google, you know, stand back because, you know, it,
 it's, it's a type of tool that many people have, have written and, and fire doors and
 map is a very powerful scanner, which I'm sure is being employed for malicious purposes.
 And in fact, the, the exact scenario you mentioned where you at, you put in an IP range and a
 port range, I was talking a couple of weeks ago about the, about how it was windows open
 file sharing dilemma that, that years ago induced me to create shields up.
 Well, I used a scanner just like that.
 And I said, find port 139 TCP port 139 and I put in the range of IP addresses surrounding
 the IP I had received from our ISP for our ISDN line.
 And up popped all these computers that were accepting connections on port 139.
 Right.
 I mean, they had, they had windows file sharing open and exposed and many of them had drive
 C and D and E and F and G all freely available on the internet.
 So, so the good news is these sorts of problems have diminished, but for example, file sharing,
 my ISP for my cable modem provider Cox, they're blocking now 137 through 139 and 445 and a
 few other commonly attacked Microsoft ports and which is really a service for their users.
 So they're automatically preventing anyone from the outside being able to get in.
 However, you're still able to from within the Cox network, you're able to provide or
 to create scans because they're only protecting at their border.
 Yeah.
 So the same, I'm sorry, but at the same time to really get back to answer your question.
 Some of the traffic that this internet background radiation is coming from essentially automated
 non-sentient worms that are just out there scanning around the world that we're never
 going to get rid of.
 But it is the case that other traffic, well, some other is windows messenger pop ups.
 I still see a lot of that happening at that junk on port 135, right?
 You know, trying to spam people who have a naked machine with no firewall who have windows
 messenger running and that must mean that they're not up to service pack two of XP.
 Because that finally, you know, XP's firewall blocks that and the messenger service is finally
 not running by default really interesting running before to run a theory or some sort
 of network packet analyzer to just watch kind of this background noise and kind of break
 it down.
 I'm sure some security group has done this and what percentage is, you know, sasser,
 what percentage is this, what percentage is that?
 Oh, it really is, interestingly, I mean, it is absolutely interesting.
 I remember from the last time I was doing it when I was, you know, in the focusing on
 my cable modem traffic and I think it's when I was dealing with wicked after the 13 year
 old kid who had attacked GRC years ago, I spent a lot of time looking at the traffic
 and having just a constant log running showing me what was coming in and I'm so, and it's
 a mixture.
 Now we have worms.
 We do have advertisers trying to send you, you know, windows pop up messenger and then
 you've got the occasional clear port scan.
 In fact, I've got several different IP ranges.
 And I remember when I was watching those ranges, you would, you could see packets arriving.
 For example, sin packets on port 23, they would just sequentially arrive at successive
 IP addresses.
 So it's literally a linear scan through a range of IP, something looking for an open
 server on a given port.
 And that's going on all the time.
 It's really kind of amazing.
 I suppose, you know, it five years from now, you'll still see a sasser on the net and this
 stuff, you know, it'd be kind of senescence since there won't be anything for an attack
 anymore.
 But as long as there's one window, infected windows 98 machine out there, it'll continue
 to back it's funny too, because in the old days, you know, meaning six years ago, you
 could look at your cable modem light and you could use that light to determine when
 you had traffic with your computer.
 Now, that light is never, it's exactly, it is never not flashing because there's just
 all this junk out there on the cable modem, and even on a DSL line, which is just, you
 know, it's just, again, it's IBR, it's internet background radiation.
 So so I guess my message would be for, for people who are concerned about their net router
 logging, telling me if it's too noisy, if you're worried that that there's some valuable
 information there, I would suggest that it probably is more the router trying to justify
 its existence than it is useful.
 The logging can be useful if you are forensically trying to figure out why something doesn't
 seem to be working in your network.
 For example, if you were looking for incoming traffic, because you had believed that you'd
 opened a port that was going to allow traffic from like a friend of yours who was trying
 to connect into your system, well, the log there might tell you that it was blocking
 and dropping packets from a certain IP.
 And in fact, we briefly mentioned this idea, which I think is actually kind of clever of
 allowing two routers to connect to each other by sending traffic to each other and having
 each router look at its own log to determine what port and IP that traffic is coming from
 and then have the computer that's reading the log send traffic outbound to that IP and
 port, which would allow you to do a net traversal without needing a third party.
 I've never seen that written or heard of it before, but it would be kind of a cool way
 using the router's logs to perform a non-third party net traversal.
 Well, that's an interesting idea.
 So it can have applications, but again, I think it's mostly useful for forensic or
 diagnostic purposes, not useful for alerting you to attacks.
 The fact is, technically, we are all under attack all the time.
 It's just sending us your logs.
 And that's why any Windows machine, a recently created Windows machine that isn't patched
 fully, stuck on the Internet with no firewall protecting it, will be, I mean, tests have
 been done.
 It has taken over within minutes, literally, of being stuck on the net.
 Every IP is constantly under quote attack, unquote.
 So that's why sticking that router on your network and just ignore it.
 It is protecting you or just make sure you've got your firewall running on your PC if you're
 not behind a net router.
 And again, ignore all that nonsense.
 It's one of the reasons that Microsoft's Service Pack 2 XP firewall is so quiet and
 it has no option for pop-ups.
 I mean, they don't offer that as an option, as far as I know.
 I guess there's a log that you can turn on in XP's firewall.
 I think I remember seeing some logging that, again, for diagnostic purposes is useful for
 warning you of attacks is not because, again, we're all under attack.
 Steve, you've done it again.
 And mainly, I think because both of us handle questions from people, you know, what does
 that mean?
 What does this mean?
 It's really mainly just to calm people down.
 It's okay.
 It's just noise.
 It's internet background radiation.
 More information always on the websites at the grc.com/security now.
 That's where you'll find transcripts of this show and every show we've done all 45, 46
 episodes now.
 And also, of course, 16 kilobit versions for the bandwidth impaired, still on modems or
 people who just don't have the time to download a higher quality version.
 We also remind you that that's the home for Spinrite, which is everybody's favorite.
 My favorite.
 Disc maintenance and recovery utility.
 The stories keep coming in.
 If you want to read some amazing testimonials, visit spin R I T E dot info, Steve puts new
 ones up all the time and they're just they're heartwarming stories.
 It must make you feel very good.
 Yeah.
 Actually, I need, I keep saying that I'm going to catch up.
 I've got a whole bunch more.
 I think the last one is a couple months ago that, you know, somebody's system wouldn't
 boot anymore.
 Oh, they're constant though.
 You get them every day.
 Yeah, exactly.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 So Spinrite is available at GRC dot com.
 And if you deal with drives, you need Spinrite, you know, I think a lot of people go to very
 fancy expensive, and I mean thousands of dollars, disc recovery places, when in fact, if it's
 just a soft air, if it's just a formatting error or a software error or an operating system
 error, it's almost, you know, they can't do anything that Spinrite can.
 Well, the other thing too is with drives being so big, there are many areas of drives that
 aren't visited very often.
 And one of the nice things that Spinrite does is when you turn it loose on your system and
 let it run overnight or, you know, however long it takes, depending upon the speed of
 the whole system, it's reading and writing every single sector of your drive several
 times.
 It reads it, it inverts the data, writes it back, reads that inverts it again, writes
 it back and reads it again.
 Kind of exercises it.
 So it really exercises it and that's important because drives are now handling their own defects.
 But if a sector defect gets too big to be corrected, then you've got a problem.
 The cool thing is that Spinrite essentially lets the drive inspect itself by asking it
 to read and rewrite and reread the entire surface.
 So any trouble which is beginning to occur, Spinrite essentially shows the drive that
 hey, you've got a problem with this sector and the drive exactly, map it out, it removes
 it from service and a swaps a spare in.
 So as a preventive maintenance tool and as it means just to check to see what condition
 your drives are in.
 I mean, there really is nothing like it.
 With these big 500 gigabyte drives now, I run Spinrite on every new drive just because
 I know I want to proactively, I want to make sure that there's nothing wrong with that
 drive before I start committing important things.
 That's funny in the old days, we got in, well, we didn't get in trouble, but there were
 some manufacturers that would over order the, we're talking like, well, okay, compact.
 I mean, no major computer manufacturers are gone now.
 We can talk about them.
 Right.
 In fact, I just realized that they would over order the number of drives they needed.
 You Spinrite to qualify them at the loading dock, essentially an incoming QA and then
 return the excess drives that were the least good as determined by Spinrite.
 So I mean, it really has that sort of like, you know, diagnostic and long-term preventive
 maintenance capability.
 Well, I wish drive manufacturers would just do that before they leave the factory, but
 I would buy, I would pay a premium for a drive with it said Spinrite tested before shipping.
 I would buy, I would pay a premium for that.
 Maybe someday.
 Yeah, we were talking about all of this router activity and monitoring and so forth.
 If you are administrator of a big network, you certainly need to do this kind of thing.
 You need to constantly keep an eye on things and you need a router that's a little smarter
 than the average lances.
 You need the Astaro security gateway, Astaro is of course the sponsor of security now.
 We're really glad to have them all open source.
 They make great stuff.
 They've just released a brand new product, the incentive version one, ACC they call it.
 It's free for all users of the Astaro security gateway.
 So if you're a network administrator with multiple gateways, you can manage them.
 You can control them.
 You can monitor them.
 You can look at threat levels all from one central command post that's got a beautiful
 map of the world that's just really slick.
 ACC is one of the many reasons to look at the Astaro security gateway.
 If you're a small or medium business and you need superior protection from spam, from
 viruses, from hackers, plus complete VPN capabilities and intrusion protection content filtering
 and industrial strength firewall, add an easy to use, high performance appliance contact
 Astaro.
 A-S-T-A-R-O dot com or call 877.
 The number four Astaro for a free trial of an Astaro security gateway appliance in your
 business.
 I use the 120 and it's really neat.
 You can by the way download it for home users.
 There is a free version.
 The software is available.
 So if you've got an old PC lying around, you'd like to turn into a super bullet proof,
 super extra powerful gateway.
 Download the software for free, A-S-T-A-R-O dot com we thank them for their support of this
 podcast.
 And as always, we thank Steve Gibson for his tireless work protecting us, educating us
 and helping us get the most out of our technology, G-R-C dot com.
 I'll see you next week, Steve.
 Okay, Leo.
 Bye now.
