 This is Security Now with Steve Gibson, Episode 4 for September 8th, 2005, Passwords.
 Steve Gibson is on the line. Our security wizard, the king of security. I'm the guy who coined
 the term spyware, of course created shields up, which has saved over almost 40 million
 people from themselves and that we would pass 38 million these days.
 It's amazing.
 It's amazing.
 GRC.com and the author of Spinrite, which is still, to this day, after over a decade,
 the best hard drive recovery and test solution out there.
 GRC.com. Okay. Last week, we did this thing on routers. I don't know about you, but I
 got a ton of mail on this.
 Well, I did too. And in fact, I want to bring up a few points that readers or listeners,
 I guess, wrote back. One guy who said I could use his name, so he probably wants me to mention
 him. His name is Jeff McDonald, made the point that you and I were talking toward the end
 about the hardware versus the software firewall issue. That is, if we have a net router out
 on the front line, is there really a need for software firewalls on the machines? And
 we were talking about the fact that software firewalls still allow you to do per application
 control. Well, Jeff made the point that, well, sure, but if you're going to have a network
 of computers, then if something nasty got into one computer, then just in the same way that
 we were talking about the Zotob worm in our very first podcast where, you know, somebody
 brought it from the weekend home into the corporations and then it got loose within the
 corporations intranet. Similarly, you do want your individual machines protected, each of
 them behind the net router so that if something nasty got into one of them, it wouldn't as
 easily spread through all the others.
 Well, that's just a subset of the general issue about software routers, which is if a beastie
 gets on your machine somehow, whether it's from somebody bringing a laptop in, or you
 opening an attachment, you don't have a software firewall to protect you. Right. Right. But
 on the other hand, if it is on your machine, it could turn off the software firewall. Whereas
 if it's on, if the bad guys on somebody else's machine on my network, at least my firewall
 will protect me. Right. And of course, you know, there's always going to be the problem
 with the software firewall that the software running in the same computer is vulnerable
 to anything that's in that computer. Yeah, also, we talked about both the tiny and the
 carry-o and firewall. They're not going to be free much longer.
 Well, exactly. Tiny has been purchased very recently, turns out by computer associates,
 you know, CAI. So that's probably going to go away. And it turns out that the carry-o
 personal firewall is still available, but their server firewall version is being discontinued
 at the end of this month, at the end of September 30th. Well, so what do we do? We're looking
 like free firewalls are beginning to become pretty scarce.
 Well, is zone alarm still have a free version? So an alarm still does. It suffers from sort
 of a kitchen sink syndrome. They're trying to be feature complete that is to keep up
 with semantic that's just, you know, a huge bloated firewall. I mean, it does all kinds
 of things for people. And for many people, it's the right solution because it does cookie
 management and pop up blocking and all kinds of stuff. But I really like a trimmer sort
 of application specific solution that zone alarm was in the old days to respond to this
 correspondence issue. Even the windows firewall would be sufficient in that case.
 That's really true. And in fact, someone also mentioned that the windows firewall in service
 pack two does alert the user. If a program running in the system wants to create a listening
 port, that is, it doesn't tell you if it just wants to communicate outwards. But if it's
 was like a Trojan or a server of any kind that wants to set up a connection and open
 a port for listening, the even the current windows firewall will tell you that that's
 going on. And you have to give it permission to do so. So that's a good thing.
 So probably for most people, if you've got an at router, turning on the windows firewall
 is adequate protection. Yes. I think that's that's true, except that you still wouldn't
 get the notification of some spyware that was phoning home. And that's probably a useful
 thing to do, even though the spyware could be aware of your firewall and circumvent it
 in order to get the message out if it wanted to. Right. You don't really have any insurance
 with a software firewall that you're not compromised. It just may catch some compromises.
 And then the last point I wanted to make from last week's podcast is an amazing number
 of people wanted me to talk about or mention smooth wall, which is a sort of a prepackaged
 firewall based on Linux that includes Linux along with it. It's completely free. It's
 www dot smooth wall dot org is the website. We have Patrick to thank for that because
 Patrick Norton was a big smooth wall fan. Of course, you have to have a dedicated computer
 to run smooth wall. I was just going to say it's sort of off on a different branch of
 our main topic, which was how you could just use either a single net router or even two
 in order to create various types of security configurations. But for someone who's a more
 hard card hard core networking guy who's got an older machine that is no longer really
 speedy enough to run Windows and do useful things, especially with today's media sizes
 and so forth. If you can stick a few more nick cards into it, you could definitely take
 an older PC, give it one interface card for the WAN, one interface card for your LAN,
 and a third interface card if you wanted to set up a true DMZ, a true sort of protected
 separate network, then smooth wall is a terrific solution for that. You don't need to know
 Linux. It's got a web browser based interface. I mean, it's got bells and whistles you can't
 even imagine. So for a higher ender user, it's certainly the case that that would work.
 It's funny. We really touched on a nerve there. I mean, I got so much mail in. It seems like
 people who, for some reason, were really offended when you say, when I say don't, I don't recommend
 a software firewall. I recommend an outratter instead. I don't want to offend anybody.
 That's just my opinion. And you think that probably it's not a bad idea to run a software
 firewall.
 Well, you know, you and I don't, but I'm also extremely careful and paying attention
 to what my machine is doing from moment to moment. But on the other hand, it is because
 I was beta testing his own alarm that I first discovered spyware. But things have changed
 since then. I mean, spyware is much more sophisticated than it used to be. It is also
 the case that Microsoft is becoming clearly security conscious. And as we know, Vista
 will offer an outbound blocking built-in firewall, which is probably going to end up being the
 recommendation as long as they can bolt it down enough so that software isn't able to
 turn it off and get around it. Right. So your recommendation now is what?
 Certainly a net router continues to provide very good, I mean, like perfect protection
 from external intrusion into the system. And I think that the karaoke personal firewall
 version 4.2, which is the current one, the free version that not the server firewall,
 which is being discontinued at the end of the month, but the current personal firewall,
 I think that's the best solution for a nice, you know, not heavy. It's very small. It's
 one of the smaller firewalls around in terms of download size and just lightweightness
 and it behaves itself very well. And I'm just going to say that in my, because
 I've had so much experience with people installing zone alarm and having problems, you know,
 anytime you put system level software on your machine, you know, some percentage of machines
 are going to have compatibility issues, slowdowns, crashes, maybe even stop working. I'm just
 going to say using that router, if you want a little more protection, turn on the windows
 firewall. If you're using XP service pack two, that's a pretty darn good combination.
 I really think that's the case. Yes. All right. Now let's move on to something that people
 don't pay enough attention to and probably should. Passwords. Right. Right. There was
 an interesting comment made by actually Microsoft's senior program manager for their security
 policies, a guy named Jesper Johansson at a conference a few months ago. He stood up
 in front of the room and said to everybody that the recommendations most corporations
 give their employees, if not like formal security policy is wrong. Most companies are now telling
 their employees, do not write down your passwords because of the problem of, you know, people
 have gone at lunchtime and someone comes into your cubicle and sees your passwords written
 down on post-it notes. Yeah. People leave their passwords on the monitor. Well, of course,
 the classic from so many movies is somebody turning the keyboard upside down and there's
 a password written on the underside of the keyboard. Why did he say that that was bad
 advice? That seems like good advice. Don't write it down. Well, what's interesting is
 that this got picked up and then a real security guru, Bruce Schneier, who does, who's, you
 know, counter pain dot com, really understand security is in complete agreement that passwords
 should be written down. The point is that if you don't allow people to write down passwords,
 they are forced to choose really dumb ones because they can't remember anything. Because
 they can't exactly, they can't remember a complex password which will not be in a dictionary.
 So if you, if you, the idea is that corporations that are saying, do not write down your passwords
 are inherently forcing people to choose passwords that are easily guessable or prone to dictionary
 attack. That is to say are, by not, by refusing to allow people to write them down, they're
 having to choose bad passwords. And that's worse than, than writing them down. The point
 that Bruce makes, which I think is a very good one, is that write down your passwords
 on a small piece of paper and put them where you put your other private pieces of paper,
 which is to say in your wallet. He, he makes the point, and I think it's a good one, that
 people are already good about protecting written down information that they know they
 need to keep private. So don't put it on a post-it note on your monitor, but stick it
 in your wallet. You already don't want people to get your credit cards, and you probably
 have other private information in your wallet that you don't want people to have access
 to. And, and he makes the point that people are, are good about protecting that kind of
 information. Is it okay to use a software password wallet that is, is, is protected on
 your system? And that's what I do. Well, that's really where I wanted this conversation
 to go. I wanted you and, and, and me to, to sort of open up the topic during this podcast
 and, and get people to think about what they can do about passwords, because normally what
 happens is, you know, I mean, first of all, anyone who's using internet services is being
 confronted with the need to create or enter, you know, to be involved with passwords, because
 to do online services, whether it's eBay or Amazon or whatever, you're having to authenticate
 yourself on a more or less continuous basis. Most people have never taken some time to
 create their own policy, their own personal password policy. They, they're, they're on
 the web, they're doing something, and suddenly something says, okay, you're not, give me
 a password, create a password. And so, you know, they think of, they just do the first
 thing that comes to mind, whatever that might be. And so I wanted to take some time to,
 to discuss the issue of passwords and, and cause our listeners to sort of say, okay,
 wait a minute, this is an important thing. I'm going to, you know, take five minutes and
 figure out what I want to do about this, rather than continuing not to think about it and
 not to think that it's important, because I think it arguably really is an important
 issue. So create a personal password policy and do it now, while you've got the leisure
 to think about it. I'll tell you what I do. I try to create passwords that are both strong
 and memorable by using various mnemonics and, and devices. Let's, let's start off by what
 is a good password, Steve? Well, we know that, that strong passwords are things that are
 not in dictionaries. One of the most powerful attacks against passwords is just so-called
 dictionary attack. And there are like 300 megabyte dictionaries, I'm sorry, 30 megabyte
 dictionaries that, that are floating around the net that contain just about every word
 you can imagine. So if you've got a real word, a pet name, a personal name, you're, you're
 going to be cracked pretty quick. Forget it. Exactly. It's, it's like people who use, who
 use their names in email, get spam without ever having told anyone what their name is.
 Because their name is in every one of these spam lists. And so the spammers just use,
 use dictionaries to, to drive their spam sending. And, and so the same sort of approach can
 be used in cracking a password. You just simply guess what the password is from a list of
 all known, feasible words. And it's amazing how often that's effective. So you absolutely
 don't want to just use a normal word or your name or your pet name or anything like that.
 How about a nonsense word? Is that acceptable? Well, the, the best con, the best passwords
 are, are not easily guessable and non obvious. So for example, a mixture of letters and numbers
 makes a good password. A little punctuation salted in for good man or, or something, for
 example, maybe a word that, that you scramble up. One of the most interesting approaches
 for websites is to come up with sort of a personal hash of, of the domain name of the
 website. There's a dashboard widget that does this. It's kind of, okay. So you have a standard
 password that you use on all sites, but you hash it with the past, the domain name of
 the site. Well, the problem is that that requires the use of some software. And for example,
 a software, a software password wallet is also a nice approach. The problem is that, that
 it's not portable. Right. And so if you're ever at someone's, at, at, at a friend's house
 or away from your desk. And the other problem is, of course, that could be stolen or somebody
 could, if you, someone got the master password for that, then they unlock your password wallet
 and they got all your passwords. What I'm thinking of is imagine a simple algorithm
 that you can memorize, which is a way of like mutating the domain where you're visiting
 in a way that is unique to you. For example, take every other letter from the domain name
 or every third letter, come up with a rule for capitalizing them, swap some letters around,
 you know, just sort of make up your own algorithm and that you don't share with anybody else.
 And don't use anything that I've talked about on the show, of course. And, and use that to
 create a password. The beauty is that it'll be unique. It'll not be in a dictionary unless,
 unless you don't have a very good algorithm. But, but once you know what it is, you don't
 have to remember the password any longer because you can always regenerate it. And wherever
 you are, you can regenerate it. I mean, it might take a little bit of pencil and paper
 work, depending upon, or maybe it's something that you can sort of type in as you look at
 the domain name. So like, you know, reverse the order of certain groups of letters, change
 the capitalization in a special way, maybe make, take the name and like mix in the year
 of your birth, alternating that with the letters. I mean, you can get creative, but the
 beauty is it's your own, it's basically it's your own password, password hashing algorithm
 that takes the domain, mixes something that's unique to you in, and maybe tack on some a
 couple gibberish characters that are that that part you don't ever change. But the gibberish
 is completely made up. This is a good technique. Two, seven z's, you know, w I like this. So
 if I'm on NY times dot com, I could say intermix my year of birth, and every other letter,
 and then uppercase every third letter. So I'd have lowercase n one uppercase y nine and
 so forth. And that would not be a guessable password. Exactly. It's going to create a super
 strong password. It's going to be an algorithm. I mean, okay, if two people on the planet
 had the same algorithm, by chance, that's not a problem either. No, because the chance
 is true, because there are so many algorithms that no one's going to be able to figure out
 what the algorithm is. Right. So if there was an algorithm collision, as we would call
 it in in cryptography, that doesn't weaken your use of your passwords. But it does create
 something that's portable that I mean, you might want to write the rules down. You could
 you could imagine writing them down in your wallet in case you ever forgot them. And nobody
 who looked at it would know what that was. They go, what the heck is this? Especially
 if you did a little cryptically, you know, alternate third letter with your of birth.
 I mean, nobody's going to think of that. Exactly. Now, before we wrap, let me ask you a question,
 Steve. How do you do your passwords? I'm not as good as I should be. I have always sitting
 next to me is is a is a palm pilot, which is my address book and a list of all that kind
 of stuff. It's just my master notepad. And I do have a huge number of passwords that
 I've used over time. So what will happen is if I'm away from my palm pilot, I'll have
 to hope that the website I'm using is patient as I'm running through all the possible passwords
 that it might be. It's embarrassing. That's what I do. Did I use this one here? Did I use
 that one there? Which one did I use? I have a few what I consider high security passwords,
 some medium security passwords and some low security passwords. Now that's another very
 good point because it's certainly the case that not all things require the same level
 of protection. The New York Times, I don't really care if my password's guessed. Exactly.
 One thing you don't want to do, however, something that got me a while ago, I've been a victim
 of credit card fraud online twice. The most recent case was that my bank apparently used
 an online web form that allowed you to change your mailing address, which I think is a really
 bad thing for the bank to do in the first place. Because what happened was that somebody was
 ordering stuff shipped to Colorado rather than Southern California. A red flag finally
 went up. They realized something strange was going on. My behavior pattern had changed and
 mostly I was now in Colorado apparently, which never happened. The point is that even though
 my password was different, the bank used mother's maiden name as authentication. Well, somewhere
 else on a different site, I had used it not as my password, but as like a password reminder
 kind of thing. And the point is that there are places where it's a common security problem.
 It's called repurposing. That is, I didn't use my mother's maiden name as a password,
 but I did use my mother's maiden name knowing that it was my mother's maiden name in order
 to have a password reminder on another site. So any employee of that facility would have
 a list of all the mother's maiden names of people. And if they then went to somewhere
 else that was actually using the mother's maiden name as the password, you're cracked,
 basically.
 It's not such a hard thing to find out somebody's mother's maiden name.
 No, that's probably the good example of the worst possible thing you could use to protect
 yourself.
 Well, and let's not forget Paris Hilton who used her dog's name as her password reminder.
 And of course, everybody knew her dog's name and figured that that would probably be what
 she'd use. So that's a bad choice. So I think we want to get some feedback, don't we, from
 people on how they do this, what they recommend and what works for them. Maybe if they use
 some password software, that kind of thing, should they go to your site?
 And we can certainly start off next week's show by talking about what the feedback we
 get. That's great. But more than anything, the message would be give this some time rather
 than always being in a hurry, needing to come up with a password quickly, take some time
 now, maybe invent your own cool little algorithm that takes any domain name and turns it into
 a password that you can use. And again, the beauty of that is that way you're creating
 a different password every time, never using the same one twice on different domains, and
 you're able to recreate that without needing to memorize it.
 I love it. It's your personal portable password policy from Mr. Steve Gibson, grc.com is the
 website. It's security now as it comes out every Thursday. If you want to subscribe, you
 can either go directly to the feed, which is leo.am/podcasts/sn. You can also subscribe
 on iTunes, Pod Nova, ODO, all the usual places, or just go to grc.com where Steve makes available
 not only the 64 kilobit version, but also a lo-fi version for those of you on the dial-up
 or who just want a smaller file size. Oh, and also text and PDF text transcripts
 of the shows also. Are people downloading the transcripts?
 Yes, and we're getting a lot of positive feedback on your on your first Twit in the Apple store
 last week. I noticed that you did a poll asking people if they'd like the 64k bit, if they
 like 32k bit, or 32k bit less. So what is worth? We're getting a lot of downloads of the more
 efficient, you know, leaner, 16k bit. So it's very popular also with people who are getting
 this overmodal. Well, we'll keep doing that. And really, it's the content that counts and
 that's why, of course, we offer it in so many different ways. Steve, always a pleasure.
 I'll talk to you next Thursday. Thanks, Lee. I look forward to it.
 That's it for episode four of Security Now with Steve Gibson. Our thanks to AOL Radio
 at AOLMusic.com for providing the bandwidth for security now. If you'd like more information
 about the topics we discussed or to give us feedback, visit grc.com/securitynow.htm. You'll
 also find transcripts and lo-fidelity versions of the same show there.
 To subscribe, visit the iTunes Music Store, click the podcast section, or just download
 a podcast or program like iPod or X and enter leo.am/podcasts/snd. And of course, you can
 hear security now on AOL Radio and the podcasting channel. I'm Leo LaPorte. Thanks for joining
 us. Stay safe. We'll see you next week.
