 ♪♪
 NetCasts you love.
 From people you trust.
 ♪♪
 This is Twit.
 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by
 CashFly at C-A-C-H-E-F-L-Y.com.
 ♪♪
 This is Security Now, Episode 487
 for December 23rd, 2014.
 Steve introduces Squirrel.
 Security Now is brought to you by ProXPN.
 ProXPN is a virtual private network that allows you to use
 the internet the way it should be, anonymously,
 and without oversight.
 Save 50% off with a 12-month subscription.
 Go to proxpn.com/twit and use the code SN50 at check out.
 And by Casper, an online retailer of premium mattresses
 for a fraction of the price.
 Because everyone deserves a great night's sleep,
 get $50 off any mattress purchased by visiting casper.com/securitynow
 and entering the promo code securitynow.
 ♪♪
 "Hello, it's me, your Elf on the Shelf Leel Report.
 It is time, as always, for a very special year-end security now.
 Steve is so great with Security Now.
 He likes to pull stuff out of the archives.
 And this one's going to be a very interesting one.
 But before we get to that, I want to tell you about our sponsor,
 all year long.
 They've been doing such a great job of keeping you safe and private
 on the internet.
 I'm talking about ProXPN.
 Now, if you've listened to Security Now for any length of time,
 you know the best way to protect yourself
 at an open Wi-Fi access spot is with an open VPN server.
 ProXPN is the best.
 It's a managed open VPN server that emerges on the internet
 at your choice of locations.
 Yes, in the US, but also in Singapore, in Amsterdam.
 You can emerge in the UK, anywhere in the world,
 which means no geographic restrictions.
 It means your data at that open access spot is encrypted.
 It goes through an encrypted tunnel all the way to the ProXPN servers.
 It means you're private.
 Many people don't realize it also will protect you if you use it at home
 against snooping ISPs.
 And this is becoming a bigger and bigger problem.
 Internet service providers that are doing the work of the recording industry
 and the motion picture industry, looking at what you're up to,
 making sure you're not naughty.
 And frankly, it's none of their business what I'm doing,
 so I protect myself with ProXPN.
 You should, too.
 ProXPN.
 Visit proxpn.com/ — I want to send you the right place here —
 proxpn.com/twit — you can read up all about it, they have a free version,
 but I would suggest trying the premium version.
 You could try it for seven days, cancel any time in that for seven days,
 and get your money back, so it costs you nothing.
 But we also have a special deal for you that will save you a huge amount
 in your ProXPN subscription.
 50% off the monthly price when you sign up for a 12-month subscription.
 But what you need to do is go to proxpn.com/twit
 and use the offer code SN50, for security now, 50% off.
 SN50, you'll save 50% on a monthly rate on a yearly subscription
 when you use that offer code.
 It works with OpenVPN, even on mobile devices if you use their Android or iOS
 app, and that's really sweet, those free apps.
 But you can also use PPTP if you're on a platform that can't use OpenVPN.
 You can bypass internet filtering, protect yourself at Open Wi-Fi access spots,
 protect yourself against snooping from your internet service provider,
 and their software for the Windows platform or Macintosh OS X offers advanced controls,
 so you can select ports, you can connect, it's startup, you can even select programs
 that should be shut down if your anonymous connection is ever interrupted.
 That's kind of handy.
 ProXPN, I love them, it's OpenVPN done right, and I want you to try it right now.
 ProXPN.com/twit, don't forget to use the offer code SN50 to save 50% off the monthly price
 when you sign up for a 12-month subscription.
 By the way, they accept payment from Visa, yes, PayPal, yes, and even Bitcoin.
 Pretty cool, huh?
 ProXPN.com/twit, offer code SN50, we thank them for supporting security now all year long.
 Now, here's what we've got for you from Steve Gibson, he likes to send these along for our specials.
 This is a presentation Steve did last month at the Digit Search Security Summit Conference in Las Vegas.
 They were very intrigued about his new technology squirrel, you've heard probably Steve talk about this on security now.
 SQRL, it's his proposal for a replacement basically for passwords for logging onto websites.
 More secure, more anonymous, easier to use, squirrels amazing, and if you've been wondering about the details of squirrel,
 finally you're going to get to see right now in this presentation.
 This is Steve Gibson from November at the 2014 Digit Search Security Summit Conference in Las Vegas.
 Enjoy.
 I will consider this talk to have been a success.
 If at the end of it you both understand something that's really not that complicated,
 find yourself wondering why it's taken us until now to articulate something that's not very complicated,
 and also all end up wanting this thing to get adopted as much as I do.
 Just as Dan was finishing his talk, I got my boarding pass for Southwest Airlines 24 hours before I'll be flying back tomorrow,
 and it was on my phone.
 And I know that the gate will accept the barcode, but I wasn't so sure about the burly TSA guy that would let me through security.
 So I thought, okay, I have to get this printed somehow. So I walked across the hall here to the little business center
 and confronted this alien computer that had a printer connected to it, so that was hopeful,
 and began to try to figure out what was the least amount of information I had to give it in order to somehow get my boarding pass printed on the printer.
 It didn't seem to be any way to get it out of the phone, so I just, you know, I clenched and went to Southwest's website and logged in.
 Now, I don't know my password because you shouldn't know your passwords anymore, unfortunately.
 So I looked it up using a password manager and carefully typed in about 16 digits, and, you know, I'm horrified at the idea
 that I'm entering, I'm logging into a computer, I have no knowledge or control over, but I have to.
 And so I told myself, okay, at least, you know, I will immediately change the password after I'm done.
 So I did get my print out, and I logged off, and I was glad to see that the system rebooted afterwards.
 So maybe they've got some state-saving thing where it starts fresh every time, and so hopefully it's forgotten me.
 I did, however, change my password nonetheless.
 If I had this technology that I'm going to explain, which is open, free, available, it actually exists.
 There's an Android client running it now.
 I'm finishing up a Windows client.
 There's about 15 projects over on GitHub for various server-side and client-side platforms.
 If I had it, Southwest would have presented me with a little QR code next to my login name and password.
 And I would have snapped that with my phone, and the phone would have confirmed that I wanted to log into Southwest,
 which prevents one type of exploit.
 I would have said yes to the phone, and without typing anything on the keyboard,
 because, of course, there could still be a keystroke hardware logger in line on the keyboard
 that grabbed my password, and some evil person's going to suck it down later.
 But without me touching the machine at all, just clicking on the page, I'm then logged in using this technology.
 That was the way I originally conceived this about a year ago.
 Thus, the QR in the middle, secure QR code login.
 But then, in thinking about it a little bit more, I realized that if you wrap an image, like of a QR code,
 in an HTML href tag, then the image becomes clickable, which means that at home, on a machine that I do trust,
 but I have an identity on login, on websites all over the internet, at home, I click the QR code with my mouse.
 And the client, the Windows client, or Mac or Android or whatever, the link is SQL colon/whatever.
 In the same way that you have mail to links, where you click on a mail to link and up pops your email client,
 because the OS understands that that scheme is registered to that piece of hardware, or that piece of software.
 So, you click the QR code, and again, a little dialog pops up from the client,
 confirming that you want to authenticate to this site, you say yes, and it's done.
 So, what I'm proposing, what this system is, is a complete replacement of user names and passwords for authentication.
 And this is sort of the generic outline of any talk of this sort, so I won't go through that.
 And I thought as I was putting these slides together, is there any way for me to begin a talk about authenticating on the Internet
 without talking about how bad it is, but I realized walking across the hall, I just did that.
 And besides, we all know how bad it is, we should not be using the same password for multiple sites, we should know our passwords anymore,
 the onus is on us to manage our identities, and websites have proven themselves notoriously awful at keeping our secrets for us.
 And so they're escaping all the time for disastrous consequences.
 So, none of this has changed since the very first time people were logging into mainframes with a terminal,
 all we did was remote it and didn't upgrade the technology in any way.
 So, this stuff is old.
 We're familiar with what I just described is a two-party authentication system using a username and password.
 They're ad hoc, we know that not all websites are good trustees of what is essentially our information that we've given it,
 a way of identifying ourselves to it, so it escapes lots of poor implementations.
 Increasingly, we hope that they're hashing them and they're using a good hash and they're using a password-based key derivation function
 to make it difficult to create look up tables and so forth, but still, this stuff is broken.
 Now, an alternative is, and there have been some efforts at this, the three-party systems,
 where you have some sort of federated identification system.
 I've attended a couple of identity conferences where there was some venture capitalists who was financing his own solution to this,
 and we all had to, you know, one way or another, he was saying, oh, it's all free for end users.
 Well, okay, except that, you know, he's trying to make money on this.
 One of the things that I think is clear is that authentication is just too big.
 It's too ubiquitous, it's too important, it has to be free.
 It's not something that anybody can own.
 So, I think that's one of the reasons that we've sort of been stuck with usernames and passwords for so long,
 is that it is free, it is obvious, it takes no training or, you know, particular acumen in order to use it.
 Unfortunately, it's also really bad.
 But the problem is, in this post-Edward Snowden era, I don't think any kind of a third-party system makes sense.
 The advantage of a third-party is that there's someone that you can go to if you get in trouble,
 if you forget what your password for them is, or if you lose your credentials somehow.
 So, the advantage of a third-party is there's some recourse.
 But the problem is, now in this era, we have to trust them.
 And that seems that, you know, less and less likely to happen.
 So, the solution that we want will not be a profit center.
 It's completely open.
 It wants to be understandable, clean and simple, have a straightforward, easily understood security model,
 and wants to be easy to implement.
 I chose standard crypto off the shelf that, as far as we know, has no intellectual property complications.
 Dan mentioned Daniel Bernstein as being the solution for fast signing of things.
 And I'm using the Bernstein's elliptic curve crypto library,
 which is what DNS crypt is based on.
 And I'm seeing more and more instances of people picking up on it.
 It's the EC 25519 elliptic curve.
 And it's just, I mean, it's like this dream solution for crypto.
 And a solution has to have low friction adoption.
 I think that's crucial.
 And this is my first presentation about squirrel.
 I've been working on it for a year, nailing down all the details.
 Because what I'm going to give you in the next slide or two is something that's sort of obvious and simple.
 But as always, the devil is in the details.
 And there are some edge cases that we need to handle.
 Because this is a two-party system where the user is ultimately responsible for managing their identity.
 And not all users are equally competent at doing that.
 So there needs to be some system for providing some recourse in the event of them losing credentials.
 So how does this thing work?
 The next slide after this one shows a simple picture of what is essentially the entire architecture.
 I'll go back though and say that the way this works is that the user's client,
 when you download this on Android or on Windows or Mac, and it runs under wine and Linux,
 I'm sure there will be some native implementations soon.
 People are working on them.
 It generates one 256-bit, which is really big.
 And big enough, that's what a Bitcoin ID is.
 And as Dan says, it is not difficult to get really good random numbers anymore.
 There's all kinds of good ways to do that.
 So it generates one 256-bit master token.
 That is your identity potentially for life.
 I mean literally, if you don't do something stupid and there are actually ways to recover from stupidity,
 which I'll discuss.
 But you potentially only need this one thing forever.
 And the client helps you make a paper copy, print it out so that you're able to,
 if your device melts down, you're able to recover it.
 The idea is that that's your master key.
 Then the website domain that you're logging into is hashed with that master key.
 That master key, keys and HMAC, and the domain name of the website is hashed through that to generate a private key.
 What's so cool about this, about elliptic curve crypto,
 unlike the traditional RSA crypto where we take two prime numbers and multiply them,
 and the hard thing about RSA, about this prime math, as we all know,
 it's difficult to perform a prime factorization.
 There's no way to un-multiply the numbers in any practical time.
 But what that means is that the crypto is not easily deterministic.
 Elliptic curve crypto is, which is to say that we're able to feed the master key and the domain name through a hash,
 and the result with a little bit of tweaking of bits in order to make it a valid private key.
 But out of 256 bits, we have to just change a couple of them,
 and we end up with a private key which never leaves the client.
 The beauty of that is now we have a per-site private key generated from our single master identity.
 So we do two things with that.
 That we run it through a function that makes that into a public key,
 and that's fast and easy, and that becomes our identity for that site.
 That is, it's a random looking token, it's also 256 bits,
 and it is both the public key that matches the private key,
 and that's the way the site knows us.
 So the system is pseudonymous, unless we associate it with our real-world identity,
 we're completely anonymous to the site.
 And since every domain name is going to hash to something to a different private key,
 and that's going to have a correspondingly different public key,
 we have a different identity for every site, so we can't be tracked across sites.
 Then what happens with this QR code is that this is a so-called, in crypto terms, a nots.
 Every time the Southwest Airlines, in my ideal world,
 website displays one, it's different.
 It's just a different QR code.
 Encoded in that is some information.
 There's a timestamp, the IP that we're connecting from,
 maybe some session log on information.
 Basically, it's free format.
 There's no fixed format for this.
 What we need it to be is unpredictable and not repeated,
 and that's easy to do.
 We add some internet time to it and a monotonically increasing counter,
 and it's never going to generate the same one twice.
 The point is that every time that the log on page is displayed,
 a different QR code comes up, and our client, whether it's this cross log on model
 where you snap it with your phone, and so your phone becomes your authenticator,
 or the same client log on where you click the QR code
 and a client which is running there picks up the SQRL scheme and response.
 It's simply synthesizes, it knows where you are,
 because that's in the URL, synthesizes on the fly the private key,
 so you don't need per site storage.
 It's all generated on the fly.
 It then sends back the public key, which is how the site knows you,
 and uses the private key to sign that URL, which it also sends back.
 So what comes back to the server is this URL that it just recently sent out into the world
 onto some random request for a log on page.
 It comes back signed cryptographically with a public key.
 Well, the signature was made with a private key that we know corresponds to the public key,
 so it gets the public key and verifies that it was signed correctly.
 So that tells the server that the person that just sent this back with their public key
 just signed a unique bunch of gibberish that's never been seen before correctly,
 which means they have the private key, and then it looks up in its database
 who is associated with this public key and now you're authenticated.
 So it's like this works.
 It's a simple type solution that allows us to have a single identity
 not be trackable across the internet.
 It's cryptographically sound and solves the problem that we all have.
 So we're per site sedonymous.
 We get unique identifiers synthesized for us for every site.
 And notice that we've given the web server, unlike usernames and passwords,
 no secrets to keep.
 If it wanted to, it could publish the public keys, which is the way that site identifies us.
 They're meaningless for any other website because any other website is going to generate
 a different private key through that hash and thus a different public key.
 So we're not requiring the server to keep any secrets for us.
 We're just saying this is who we are for you, and if they can't keep it a secret,
 well, it doesn't really matter to us because it doesn't do anybody else any good.
 Wow.
 I hope you have your propeller cap on for this one.
 Fascinating stuff.
 We've got more with Steve explaining how squirrel works.
 And just a bit before we do that though, I want to tell you about Casper.
 If you haven't yet got your gift for your loved one, or maybe you didn't get a Casper under the tree,
 I want to tell you about Casper mattresses.
 These are amazing.
 Actually, because they come in a box, you actually could put it underneath the tree.
 In fact, we have some video of me opening Mike.
 This is a queen-sized mattress from Casper in a box.
 Casper mattresses are obsessively engineered at fair price.
 They use latex and memory phone for better nights and brighter days.
 Because it's got latex, it breathes, it's soft, it's comfortable.
 The memory phone has just the right sink, just the right bounce.
 You're going to get long lasting comfort and support.
 And the best part is you could buy online.
 You may say, but wait a minute, Leo.
 I want to sleep on my Casper before I buy it.
 Good news.
 Casper knows just lying for five minutes on a bed at a showroom is no way to figure out if a mattress is right for you.
 So Casper has a 100-day guarantee.
 They've got free delivery and painless returns any time within a 100-day period.
 So you don't just lie down for five minutes on a Casper.
 You could sleep on a Casper for three months.
 And if it's not exactly right for you, you can return it and get your money back.
 Lying on a bed in a showroom just isn't the way to do it.
 Casper knows that.
 That's why they give you 100 days to try a Casper mattress.
 Of course, made in the USA, premium mattress for a fraction of the cost.
 And I mean that $500 for a twin, $950 for a king size.
 That's an outstanding price compared to the industry average.
 You know, I love Casper so much.
 I set my son up with one in college.
 He's, you know, moved into a house.
 They don't have a bed.
 They didn't have any furniture at all.
 I had Casper send him a queen size mattress in a box.
 He loves it.
 Call Casper right now.
 Get a Casper mattress.
 And if you mention that you heard it on security now, you'll get $50 off.
 That's Casper.com/securitynow and use the promo code securitynow.
 I love my Casper mattress.
 I've never slept better.
 You're going to love it too.
 And if you don't, you can return it at no cost to you within the first 100 days.
 That's Casper, C-A-S-P-E-R.com/securitynow.
 Don't forget to use the promo code securitynow to save $50 off right now.
 Now let's head back to Vegas.
 Steve Gibson, part two of his explanation of squirrel.
 And the fact that we're, that it's generating this unique token every time means that we're
 proof against any reuse and replay attacks.
 And encoded into that could be, as I said, a time stamp.
 So it knows, for example, wait a minute, this thing that's coming back now
 is an hour old.
 Let's just ask the person to refresh the web page and get a new one because this seems
 a little suspicious.
 I mean, not that there's a problem with it, but we have that kind of control.
 And as I mentioned, there's two compatible modes of operation.
 Oh, I didn't mention that the squirrel clients all are able to share this super secret
 master key.
 So the first time you use squirrel downloading it from, you know, on whatever platform you
 choose, you're able, that's where it generates this single master identity.
 You're then able to export that to all your other devices and platforms.
 So that single identity for you is able to operate across any platforms you have and run
 in a compatible fashion, so you don't need separate identities per device.
 My client that I've written for Windows is nearly done.
 I'm actually working now on the server side stuff.
 It's at all of this stuff.
 Documentation for the protocol.
 All of the details for implementing it is at grc.com.
 And I'll have the system running probably about a week from now for people who want to
 download it.
 I've created a little squirrel login facility where you can create an identity.
 You can associate yourself.
 You can give the account a name and just sort of play with it.
 The system does support multiple different identities so that it's compatible, for example,
 with a shared computer in a household where, you know, mom and dad and Johnny and Susie
 all want to share this single machine.
 There's one need we still have because essentially what we've done is we've given this client
 the ability to stand in for us.
 It's now our authenticator.
 So we still have the problem of authenticating ourselves to it.
 Probably touch ID and a simple easy to use biometric solution is enough like maybe now
 or certainly as we grow to trust that technology more.
 For the time being, for example, in a Windows mode, I'm still asking the user to prove
 who they are to the client because we still need to authenticate ourselves to it.
 So one password rather than a myriad of passwords and it can be, you know, whatever
 you're comfortable using, I develop some technology which is unique as far as I've seen
 because it makes brute forcing a password much more difficult even than the traditional
 PBK DF2 technology is and I'll show that to you in a second.
 But we still need to authenticate the user to the device.
 The good news is since as this gets adopted, the number of passwords you're responsible
 for curating decreases, you're unlikely to forget this one master password to the Internet.
 And as you identify yourself to new websites, you get to reuse the same technology as you go.
 So one of the problems is if we don't have, as I mentioned before, a third party,
 then the end user has no recourse for their loss of password.
 As we've discussed this in various online forums for over the last year, you know,
 I've said, you know, how big a problem is that?
 And the sense is, well, people want the responsibility of managing their own identity
 on the Internet much more than they're willing to trust it to some third party.
 So the solution is to give them some tools to solve the problem of,
 I just changed my master password and I guess I typed it in wrong twice somehow
 because now I can't get it again.
 And now my entire identity on the Internet is at risk.
 This is one of the issues here is with something this powerful,
 with great power comes great responsibility.
 So now this is managing your global identity potentially,
 except in situations where you might choose not to have a do so.
 I mean, it's still up to you.
 The nice thing about this also is that because there's no charge for this,
 no one's making any money, it's very low friction for adoption.
 It is able to live side by side next to traditional login
 and get used hopefully more and more as adoption continues.
 So we have this notion of a rescue code which has been added to the simple protocol
 that I described because users are just absolutely incapable
 of actually generating high entropy content.
 The system does it for them.
 It's a 24 digit random number which so it's like a credit card
 and a half in terms of number size, not unmanageable.
 It is never stored in the device.
 It is written down or printed out and stuck away in a back shelf somewhere
 because you absolutely don't need it.
 Hopefully you will never need it, ever, ever, never need to use it.
 But it is your ultimate get out of jail free number.
 It's imbued with two special powers where it forgives us
 for forgetting the password that we do use every day
 in order to authenticate ourselves to our squirrel client.
 And it unlocks something additional called the identity lock
 that I haven't talked about yet.
 This was an additional feature that we decided squirrel needed
 to solve the other problem of, OK, this is wonderful.
 The world knows me now by unique pseudonymous tokens.
 I can't be tracked.
 Everything is great.
 But then malware gets into my phone and steals this.
 That is, how do we deal with the fact, I mean, the reality of the fact
 that our computers are still not completely safe places
 to have these kinds of keys.
 The way the client works is the squirrel clients is it doesn't,
 in a static fashion, have access itself to our master key.
 That's decrypted using our password.
 And because that can take a while, after we've authenticated
 ourselves once, I allow the user to use just the first n number
 of characters of their password.
 You don't want it to be burdensome, especially if it's your machine
 in your office at home and no one else has access to it.
 You can relax the security in that setting.
 And so we're able to make that flexible.
 Nevertheless, we need some ultimate solution
 for what if bad guys get my identity.
 The identity lock is a very cool protocol.
 And it's all documented at GRC.
 It's a unique application of Diffie-Hellman key agreement
 that works such that after your initial identity is created,
 there is information that the client carries
 that is able to create an association with the server,
 which it's able to make the association but not authenticate it.
 It's able to provide some information that if it absolutely
 became necessary for you to prove at a next level your identity,
 the client can transiently be given that ability,
 but it doesn't store it.
 It's not in it.
 So it's not there to be stolen.
 Malware can't get it.
 And if they did get your identity,
 the worst that could happen is that until you changed your identity,
 you could be impersonated, but they're not able to change your identity.
 So you're able essentially to take your identity back
 if it ever got away from you from bad guys in a secure fashion.
 And that actually makes sense to people like me and Dan,
 and I'm sure a bunch of you who are comfortable with public-key
 crypto stuff, diagrams are a little bit easier,
 and I'm not going to go through how this works here,
 because it's a little bit of a brain fry.
 But it ends up that, again, as I said, the idea here is
 that as you're going around during the day,
 visiting new websites and using Squirrel to establish these identity associations,
 we're able to do essentially a one-way process
 where what the client has can establish an association,
 but with the agreement of the server,
 it won't allow it to be changed.
 That association can't be changed to protect us from bad guys
 unless additional information is brought in in order to allow that to make that possible.
 So one of the offline attacks, which is obvious,
 is a bad password.
 Say that your phone got stolen from you,
 and you've got Squirrel loaded on it,
 we want to make brute force password cracking as difficult as possible.
 Well, there are solutions for PBKDF2 where you iterate a hash.
 The problem is those are things that run at server speed,
 and so they're still too fast.
 Column Percival came up with a cool memory hard function called S-Crypt
 where the password you use runs through a hash to fill an array of memory,
 and then that array of memory is an array of pointers
 pointing to other entries within memory.
 And so then you dance through this large amount of memory
 with the location you land on telling you where to go next,
 and that tells you where to go next, and that tells you where to go next.
 The point is that this is a very memory hard function.
 There's no way to either not give it all of that memory
 so that you're able in a reasonable time to follow the pointers through it
 once you've filled it, or if you're going to say,
 "We're going to be fancy and not use that much memory,"
 then you have to go crazy with computing what would have been in those locations otherwise.
 So that's a memory hard function, and we went one step further
 and chained those together using the standard PBKDF2 approach
 of generating a system where there is no way to run that in parallel.
 It has to be run in series because the output of the first memory hard function
 was required for the second and the third and so forth all the way down.
 So what this means is that when you first put your password in,
 it takes, and again, this is user-settable, but like five seconds
 of full-on saturated processing time in order to crunch your password
 into the key that decrypts the information that your client uses for authenticating.
 And there's no way to short-circuit that, which means that anyone brute forcing this
 is going to have to take that much time giving,
 and in fact, we default to 16 megs of RAM,
 so that's way more than current FPGAs and ASICs have available,
 so I don't have to worry about Bitcoin hashing technology making this fast.
 So we've made this very slow for offline attacks.
 There are a couple online attacks.
 I referred to the client confirming that I wanted to log on.
 The reason we do that is that, for example, I could go to Joe's Pizza website
 and say, "Oh, look, they support squirrel and authenticate myself there."
 But this could be a malicious site which has actually grabbed the code from Amazon
 and is presenting it to me on Joe's Pizza,
 and so with why I think I'm authenticating to Joe's Pizza,
 since I don't read QR codes natively, I can't see what I'm doing,
 so the point is that when we authenticate Amazon,
 there's a four pass cycle with the client,
 and among the things that Amazon sends back when it says,
 "Okay, here's your status."
 By the way, we're Amazon.com, so your client verifies with you
 that that's where you are about to authenticate, so we solve that problem.
 Also, I mentioned that the URL encodes the IP address.
 That's the IP address that asked for the QR code,
 so this solves another problem that is related to that
 where some other site was the original requester of that,
 and now your client is making the request.
 So that raises the red flag saying, "Wait a minute, the original request
 and the request from the squirrel client should be from the same IP."
 So we catch that.
 And of course, we have the CA system, the whole security chain
 that we spent the morning talk about,
 and I realized the morning has been all about authentication
 from essentially the server out, and what I've been focusing on
 with the squirrel is authentication sort of in the other direction
 at the end node proving that the user is who they say they are.
 Squirrel uses, as I mentioned before, off-the-shelf crypto
 that is open source, freely available.
 There are libraries for all the major platforms,
 and in fact, those are being used now.
 The bulk of the work is in the client, which is where you want it,
 because we only need relatively few clients,
 but we would like Squirrel to be on all the server platforms everywhere.
 The server platform has almost no work to do.
 It has to do one API call to verify the signature,
 otherwise it stores a couple 256-bit tokens, and that's its job.
 And as I said, it doesn't even have to do that with very much security.
 There's a bunch of projects on GitHub from people who have been
 following along with this.
 My client is done, and I'm just wrapping up the server side,
 so they'll go together so people will be able to play with this.
 And Android client has existed for some number of months.
 If you look for SQL, oh, by the way, I forgot to say,
 "You're a quick, reliable login," I broadened it a little bit beyond QR codes,
 because you can use this without QR codes.
 And so it's just beginning to happen.
 So the question is, here's an idea.
 How is it going to happen?
 How is it going to get adopted?
 Why would websites want to do this?
 Well, there are certainly a variety of websites in the world.
 There are sites where there's a very low tolerance to authentication.
 I'm sure all of us -- I was about to ask how many, but I know the answer --
 all of us have gone to a blog and read someone's blog and thought,
 "Oh, I have something to say," and you hit reply,
 and immediately you're asked to create an account.
 It's like, "Well, okay, forget it.
 I'm not going to bother with that." And so you don't.
 You can imagine that those sites would be incented as an example
 to dramatically lessen the burden of allowing people
 to create pseudonymous identities, where it doesn't matter who you are,
 but you don't want anyone to be able to impersonate you,
 and if you come back the next day or the next week or four years from then,
 you're able to still have your same identity.
 So you can imagine that there would be sites where it makes sense
 for them to do this, especially since it's free and it's open,
 and there will be libraries that drop in in order to make it happen.
 And then all users have to do is have one squirrel client.
 You just download it once.
 If you have multiple devices, you clone your identity into those devices,
 and it's able to identify you.
 So it's simple for the user. The user wants to use this rather than
 usernames and passwords.
 Sites where there's a low tolerance for account creation
 want to use it, and hopefully the thing could spread over time.
 And I think we know all that and questions.
 Everyone's in a coma from lunch.
 >> On the slide where you were talking about this
 S-crip for the local password, where it's kind of an S-crip
 plumbed into an S, yeah, this one.
 So S-crip being an adaptive hash function has some tweak values.
 What's the advantage of this scheme over tweaking those values higher?
 >> It turns out you can't go high enough.
 If you went -- it's still too fast.
 Even I set it up so that it's the least serializable possible.
 There are some parameters that are designed to allow it to be run in
 parallel. That's set to one.
 So you can only use one core.
 But even -- in a reasonable amount of memory, we would like to be able to run
 this in an Android platform or a smartphone platform where we don't have
 gigabytes of RAM.
 But even so, it's still too fast.
 And the other beauty of this, I forgot to mention, is that what we
 would like to do is say, I want to encrypt my password such that it
 takes five seconds to decrypt it.
 So this is able to run until some amount of time passes.
 So you just sit there iterating S-crip in small time chunks, counting
 how many iterations of it you use in this chain, and then that count is
 stored along with the encrypted result so that whenever you put your
 password back in again, you rerun the chain for the same count in
 order to get the same amount of time.
 And of course, there's inter-platform variation.
 Smartphones are slower than desktops.
 So one of the things you can do when you move your identity over to a
 smartphone is it might take 15 seconds one time, like the first time,
 because your smartphone is slower, but then you're able to
 re-encrypt your password at five seconds or whatever a length of time
 you choose.
 So the idea is it's much slower than S-crip can go, and you're able to
 sort of be able to be a very well amount of time.
 >> Perhaps I missed it, but I didn't catch what the operation
 make public key actually was.
 Is that an additional hash of the private key?
 What was that?
 >> I'm sorry?
 >> The make public key operation?
 >> Yeah.
 >> I'm hoping for more details on what that was.
 >> I didn't want to go into it in like crazy detail.
 There is a -- with elliptic curve crypto, what's -- in fact,
 this was the original like aha for me was when I realized that
 you could specify what the -- what the private key was with
 elliptic key crypto.
 Instead of having to like go find random prime numbers,
 it can be deterministic.
 So that the private key can be directly connected from the
 output of that hashing operation.
 I use live sodium, and there's just like some simple APIs.
 There's one called make public key.
 And you literally -- you give it any 256-bit value, and it
 spits out, it tweaks that a little bit for the private key,
 and then spits out the matching public key.
 And then there's another API sign.
 And so you give it a blob like the URL and the private key,
 and it spits out -- in this case, it's a 512-bit signature.
 So it's sort of black box crypto, and it's been well-vetted,
 Dan Bernstein, who's a renowned cryptologist, has beaten it
 to death.
 And if you just Google ED 25519, you'll find all kinds of
 references.
 More and more people are using this solution because it's very
 fast as well.
 >> Just a question on implementation.
 You know, use an example of the Android.
 Is there any issues that could be compromised in a way where,
 like, how are they authenticating to the client on the phone?
 >> Right.
 Well, so that comes down to sort of where we are today.
 You absolutely still need to authenticate to your phone.
 Thanks to iOS 8, we can now -- apps are now able to use touch
 ID on the fly in order to authenticate if you trust that.
 In Android, you might have biometrics or you might have to
 still use a password in order to say, yes, this is me and not my
 son or a friend or a bad guy who just ran off of my phone.
 So it's still -- essentially, we've pulled the problem of
 authentication in so that it's now one that is entirely local.
 We need to prove who we are to this bit of software that we've
 given the ability to represent us to the world.
 But that's a way different problem than giving individual
 identities to every website on the planet.
 >> And then on a -- just on a standard PC, it looks like a
 name value pair that you pass into the string.
 As a user, when I go to a site, example.com, how do I put the
 challenge in?
 >> That's all transparent.
 And in about a week, I'll have a demo up and running.
 So all the user sees is probably user name and password,
 because I'm not expecting this to supplant traditional login,
 probably ever, but the hope is that sites will see an advantage
 for making this thing available because they have much lower
 burden of themselves maintaining the protection of their
 customers' identity.
 And so you'll see user name and password and this little QR code
 off to the side, which if this succeeds and becomes prevalent,
 people will recognize, oh, I can use squirrel.
 And so you scan it with your phone or you just click on it with
 the mouse.
 So the user sees none of this URL gobbledygook randomness.
 It's all behind the page.
 And I mean, when you see it happen, it's sort of like, wait a
 minute.
 That's secure.
 That's it.
 That's all there is.
 >> Dan.
 >> So we've got a scheme that's registered.
 >> Yep.
 >> Go to the page.
 So you've got a bad guy.com.
 And it gives you a scroll URL for amazon.com.
 >> Yeah.
 >> So just speaking through the protocol, if I'm understanding
 what happens here, why this shouldn't work.
 So that goes to the app.
 The app does it alert the user.
 >> Yes.
 >> And the app says -- the app communicates with the server.
 >> Well, it's going to communicate with amazon.
 >> Right.
 >> But the user never logged into amazon.
 >> Right.
 >> The user was at bad guy.com.
 >> It communicates with amazon.
 Otherwise, you don't authenticate with amazon.
 >> Okay.
 >> So you go to bad guy.com and he's giving you an amazon.com
 URL.
 So the client connects to the amazon server and it identifies
 itself as amazon in the protocol.
 Saying, hi there, you're about to authenticate to amazon.
 Is that what you want?
 And so the user says, whoa, wait a minute.
 No, I'm over at bad guy.com.
 I don't want to authenticate to amazon.
 And so we catch that spoof in that way.
 >> Okay.
 >> So thank you.
 >> Well, that's it.
 That's how squirrel works.
 We're very excited.
 I think 2015 is going to be the year of squirrel.
 There are other competing technologies.
 But I don't know if you remember.
 But when Steve was at this conference, the guy who's working
 on FIDO over at Google came over, Steve explained how squirrel
 worked and he said, oh, that's really good.
 I think squirrel has the opportunity, the chance to really
 change how we log into websites.
 And we'll be watching with great interest.
 And of course, talking about all the security news, helping you
 stay safe online each and every Tuesday, 1 p.m.
 Pacific, 4 p.m. Eastern Time, 2,100 UTC security now.
 I hope you'll tune in each and every week or download it.
 Subscribe.
 That's the best thing to do to make sure you don't miss an
 episode.
 On behalf of Steve Gibson, I'm Leo Laport wishing you the
 happiest, the safest, the most secure of new years in 2015.
 We'll see you next year.
 Bye-bye.
