 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by AOL Radio at AOL.com/podcasting.
 This is Security Now at Steve Gibson, episode 40, from May 18th, 2006.
 Listener questions and answers, number 7.
 Security Now is brought to you by
 A starro makers of the A starro security gateway
 on the web at www.astarro.com
 I look forward to Thursdays every week because I know I'm going to learn so much about security.
 Ladies and gentlemen, Steve Gibson, the security guru.
 Hey Leo, good to be back with you.
 Good to have you.
 This is episode 40, so it means it's one of our mod 4 episodes.
 We're going to do questions and answers, but there's some big, a lot of big security news,
 and I know you wanted to cover some of that.
 Yeah, a couple things.
 For one thing, Apple announced 31 vulnerabilities this week.
 Yeah, with the OSX version 10.4.6 and previous,
 and there are local and remote code execution problems,
 information disclosure, denial of service, and local privilege escalation problems.
 I mean, basically, just a whole collection of the typical kinds of problems
 that, you know, exactly like what we were talking about last week and the week before,
 with the, this is a fundamental problem of writing secure software.
 And as we all know, Apple has for a long time enjoyed a history of much fewer problems
 than Windows has been exposed to.
 In fact, you've probably seen these commercials that they're running now, Leo.
 You know, the guy who's standing in for Apple and the one who represents the PC,
 you know, and how the PC gets viruses so quickly, but there aren't any for the Mac
 and have some problems with those ads, but they're ads.
 They're marketing, you know.
 Yeah, and they're getting the message across.
 What I'm noticing is that these are coming out just as it's beginning to be no longer true.
 Right. Right.
 Well, it's interesting because Apple never wanted to play that virus card,
 and I think that they, one of their resistances was they didn't want to antagonize virus authors.
 It was the best kept secret in the computing world was,
 "There's no viruses, and don't tell anybody."
 Well, and historically, as we've said before,
 people who write viruses write them for the computers they own,
 and Macs have, again, years ago, not been in the mainstream.
 They've been in schools to some degree, but what kids had to play with were PCs,
 and so that's what they wrote viruses for increasingly now, of course.
 Macs are affordable, and they're an increasing target.
 You watch, though.
 I don't think we're going to see the same degree of virus problems on a Mac platform,
 just because many of the things that make viruses possible that we've talked about on Windows,
 things like ActiveX, ActiveScripting, the fact that any user is really running as admin,
 those things aren't as prevalent or even like possible on the Mac side.
 And population size.
 I mean, a virus author who wants a well-propagated virus
 will still write it for Windows just due to the population size.
 Nowadays, the reason people write viruses is to co-opt computers,
 and you're going to go where you can get the most computers.
 Exactly.
 That's one issue, yes.
 Yeah, another really biggie is that a flaw has been found in the real VNC remote authentication.
 Real VNC is a very popular open-source remote desktop system
 that allows people to, you know, basically connect to a remote machine
 and then get access to its desktop.
 It's super well-used.
 This is a really bad vulnerability because it completely defeats the authentication,
 meaning that anyone who can find a real VNC server, or that is to say service port exposed,
 can, until this patch is applied and real VNC is updated, can connect to it
 and basically log in immediately.
 Oh, boy.
 Now, I got a kick out of the, you know, what to do in the meantime,
 people were saying, "Well, you know, close any ports that you have exposed to the internet."
 And this comes back to something that I've said before,
 and I want to keep reminding people which is never leave default ports alone.
 People who, for example, are running web servers,
 you pretty much have to have the server running on port 80,
 because that's where everyone's browser is going to expect to see it.
 Now, if you were running your own web server, for example, from home,
 just for remote access for you, for example,
 if you wanted to access your documents or something remotely,
 then by all means, move that web server to some funky port of your own imagination.
 The only time you really need to leave ports in their default
 is if you need people who don't know what port you've chosen to access your service remotely.
 In the case of real VNC, someone running a real VNC server at home,
 so that, for example, they're able to access their home desktop remotely,
 by all means change the default port to some random number between 1024 and less than 65535,
 because what happens is when a vulnerability like this is discovered,
 the bad guys start scanning the internet for connections on the default real VNC port.
 When they get one, knowing what the vulnerability is,
 they can log on to your desktop and your theirs.
 There's another way you could secure it.
 We use real VNC for the radio show for call screening,
 but what we do is we establish a VPN link first and then open the real VNC.
 So it's within a VPN tunnel, which, until VPN is, which could be,
 but until it's compromised, that's safe, right?
 Well, as long as the real VNC server itself is not exposed,
 that is the real VNC port is not exposed to the internet.
 It's internal.
 Then you're absolutely right. That's a great solution.
 So in other words, I have to get on the local area network by using VPN
 for I can get access to the VNC server.
 It's not exposed. It's not naked to the world.
 That's a great way to fly.
 So for anyone listening to this who is using real VNC,
 immediately update your real VNC to the latest version that you can get from their website.
 They fixed the problem, but we want to get the message out.
 And while you're doing that, if you are not running it on just some non-default
 random port that you've chosen, make that move now.
 Write the port down or use something memorable, but that's not leaving it
 at the standard service port because you always want to run services
 on non-default ports when you can.
 This is a perfect example of why that's a really good lesson.
 Of course, it's not fully secure to do that because some of the sniffing software
 will just attempt to make a connection across all ports,
 but it's a lot slower to do that.
 And so I would imagine most people just stick with default ports
 and there are enough open holes that they can just use those.
 But if they really wanted to attack you, they could test every port
 for a VNC connection.
 Yes, for example, another approach is if instead of scanning the Internet,
 if somebody knew your IP, for example, from it being posted
 in a bulletin board blog or in e-mail that was made public
 or in a news group forum where the e-mail was available on IRC on BitTorrent,
 I mean, people know your IP address immediately.
 Exactly.
 It's not something that it's easy to keep quiet.
 If someone knew your IP and they knew somewhere on that IP,
 at some port on that IP, there was a real VNC server.
 For example, you'd bragged about it in the past or talked about it or something.
 They could find it.
 They could, exactly.
 The fact that they know where what IP it's on narrows their search dramatically.
 Right.
 If you used a Hamachi to establish the connection
 and then had real VNC running locally,
 that's a great application for Hamachi and you'd be completely safe.
 All right.
 Another interesting tidbit that I just wanted to mention is
 there's sort of a boiling controversy over the purpose
 and the future of the who is database that I can is
 trying to decide what to do with.
 Now, this is of great interest to me.
 I'm sure it is to you, Steve.
 When I have a website and I do have quite a few,
 my address, my phone number, those are made public in the who is database.
 Well, for example, one of our listeners created or grabbed the domain,
 securitynow.info.
 Oh, dear.
 Well, I know, securitynow.info brings up a little page
 that redirects people to my securitynow.html page.
 Well, that was nice of him.
 Very nice of him, but I didn't want to sort of formally endorse that
 because he has control of the domain and I don't.
 So I tried, I tried, I used the who is database to try to find him.
 I got an email address, I don't remember now it was maybe a go daddy or something
 and sent him a note saying, hey, I noticed you registered securitynow.info.
 Would you be willing to transfer that to me?
 I'd be happy to pay your expenses, blah, blah, blah.
 I never got any reply.
 Chances are it went into some bit bucket somewhere and he never saw it.
 So he's listening now.
 Yes, we're looking for you.
 That would be, I'd really love to have the domain and be happy to, again,
 cover his expenses.
 But again, I can't endorse it because we don't have control of it.
 So, you know, so that's a problem.
 But, but for example, both sides of this is interesting because on one hand,
 people, for example, political dissidents or bloggers may want the option
 of retaining some anonymity.
 And of course, the anonymity is something that the Internet to varying degrees
 has always offered people.
 Television show hosts might want some anonymity.
 Don't forget that.
 Sure, sure.
 And so on one hand, you can say that the who is database needs to not necessarily
 identify someone to the degree that would potentially compromise their own
 personal safety.
 The flip side is that in the post-Katrina disaster relief stuff,
 we know that many fake donate to Contrina victims websites were created
 and the Red Cross was very upset with those sites.
 And they were able to use sort of the soft and fuzzy, doesn't necessarily
 have to be accurate-ness of the who is database to hide themselves
 and also to like put non-verifiable obscure records in.
 So I can, and in general, the Internet community are really at odds right now
 over what to do about the problem.
 There is a simple solution, by the way, I think.
 Is it a third party involved?
 In fact, that's what I do with GoDaddy.
 There's a company that offers its service for a fee at GoDaddy.
 I think it's domains by proxy.
 And everything, they hold the register, they hold the information.
 And everything in my, if you go and do a who is on twitter.tv,
 you'll see domains by proxy.
 And then if you, I can go through domains by proxy and presumably a police agency
 or ICANN could go to domains by proxy and say, "Hey, look, this is a spurious site.
 We need that information."
 Right.
 I think that would be the way to do it.
 And I hope that they find a solution.
 Have they come up with anything?
 No, it's really interesting.
 I spent some time the other day reading through the, I mean,
 just the incredible bureaucracy of this kind of process with, you know,
 opening the forum to the public, allowing people to give their pros and cons.
 And I mean, as with any complex issue,
 it isn't clear that there's a cut and dry solution.
 And in fact, the notion of running through a third party, as you suggest,
 is discussed there.
 And again, there's like the pros and cons of needing to do that.
 Well, it's government.
 And whenever, I mean, it's a quasi-governmental organization.
 And whenever government gets involved, I was briefly on the technology committee
 from my small town here.
 And it's so frustrating because the laws of California and their good laws
 that require, you know, the public to be informed about everything you do,
 things like the Brown Act, made it very difficult.
 We couldn't have, for instance, a private message board or even a mailing list
 among the group members because the Brown Act prohibits that.
 So it's both good and bad.
 And this is, that's the way things are.
 But I do think the third party ultimately will be the way to go.
 I'm happy with it.
 It can get my information, but it is available to, you know, somebody if they,
 if they, if they absolutely needed it.
 If they can demonstrate a real need.
 Yeah, exactly.
 You know, they go to court or whatever.
 Yeah, I think that, I think I guess that the issue for me is that I can see
 validity to both sides of the argument.
 So I think you're rightly.
 Oh, there is, yeah.
 That having some intermediary who's, who acts as a buffer for the information
 probably is the way it's going to want one hand.
 And you and I are in both sides of it, really, because on the one hand,
 I don't want somebody to have my, my phone number, my home address,
 or even my, my office address.
 But at the same time, I don't want anybody impersonating me on the net.
 So, so we, of course we can see both sides of the equation.
 Exactly.
 And then one last thing, a listener named Weaver wrote from the UK.
 He loved this notion that I talked about a couple weeks ago of, of browsing
 the net with, with basically with a brow, with, in my case, with IE,
 lock down tight, and then specifically white listing sites where I wanted
 scripting and more features to be available.
 So that, and in fact, the way he put it, he said, I love your idea of
 interviewing a website and then deciding if it was, you know, worthy of trust
 and then giving it trust.
 He wanted to make sure that for people who are Firefox users,
 that they knew, they, they knew about a, a plugin called NoScript.
 It's just that the URL is www.noScript.net.
 Which, and it's apparently a highly regarded plugin.
 I did a little browsing around and it's got five out of five ratings
 and it's been recommended by lots of people.
 The idea being that similarly, JavaScript and Java are, are prevented
 in Firefox until you decide that you want to or need to enable those
 for a site that you trust and just a single click on a little blocked icon
 down in the status bar will enable then basically white list the site
 and this thing works in, in Mozilla and Firefox.
 Important to make the distinction though between the kind of scripting
 that can be done in Internet Explorer with active scripting and active X
 and what's available in Firefox.
 I mean, Java script, as far as I know, doesn't have anywhere near the risks
 inherent in active scripting.
 Some people did comment.
 In fact, I think it was on the, on your Twitboard, Leo, that, that, you know,
 you know, plugin code in Firefox is as vulnerable as active X code is.
 You know, it is.
 If it's running on your system.
 Exactly.
 It's clients, client-side code that you're inherently trusting if you use those plugins.
 Although most plugins are written in JavaScript, they're written in Zool,
 which is basically JavaScript.
 And so the plugins, it's, their user interface, but they don't have, again,
 they often don't have that kind of capability.
 And that mean they don't have that level of power.
 I mean, they could.
 And that's the point if you should always be careful when you install any kind of,
 you know, plugin.
 And, and I guess it is to say the bad ones would.
 Right.
 One other point I wanted to bring up, but we got an email from a fellow who said,
 you know, Steve's method of locking down IE is great.
 As long as the bad guy hasn't modified your hosts file,
 but as soon as somebody modifies the hosts file,
 he can change where that apparent script is coming from and, and breach the security.
 It's a very, very good point.
 So if somebody has access to your system or has gotten a Trojan on your system,
 it could modify your host file.
 Now, now, of course, by that time it's too late.
 I was going to say the flip side of that is if they're already in your system to the level
 that would allow them to modify your host file, then you're pretty much hosed anyway.
 And then a lot of spyware does that, by the way.
 Yeah, we have not talked about the hosts file and we're definitely going to because it's,
 it's ubiquitous.
 It's an interesting sort of, sort of not well known unless you've, you've really dealt
 with this stuff before, sort of, way station for DNS lookup that is powerful and vulnerable,
 both at the same time.
 And people can use it to protect themselves.
 And I think I would love to have you talk about that.
 We'll do it.
 Let's save that for another one.
 Right now, though, we've got a dozen questions from listeners, a dozen out of the 5,000 you
 collected.
 Actually, I did the math.
 I have two folders, one for people who submit things anonymously and one where I could reply
 to them because they've given me an email address.
 The sum of the email in those two folders is 6,010 messages at the moment, which is why
 you're not getting a personal reply for Mr. Gibson.
 Oh, well, I do when I can.
 As do I.
 First, from Jason in Atlanta, Georgia, he actually has two questions.
 So he's double your money, Jason.
 He says, "I have Microsoft Small Business Server 2003 at our office, and I'm curious if the
 SSL certificate that our server created itself is as secure as if I'd bought one from Veracine."
 That's a good question.
 It's a great question.
 And the answer is yes.
 The SSL certificates, which any contemporary system will generate, are absolutely as secure
 as what you buy from Veracine, however, the only difference is that Veracine is standing
 behind the identity that certificate represents, which really, if you've made one yourself
 for your own users to access your server, that's really not an issue.
 You just have to make sure you don't lose control of it.
 Would it be seen by browsers as trusted, though, since it's not?
 They can't relate that certificate, as you've talked about before, back to those handful
 of trusted third parties?
 Well, that's correct.
 So the idea would be that if you're using a certificate that your own small business
 server has generated, then everyone who needs to trust that would also have to import into
 their browser or into their system the matching key for the server so that your browser is
 able to verify the certificate.
 Because as we know, web browsers come pre-built with a huge array of certificate certificates.
 That's what I'm trying to say.
 With a huge array of existing certificates that allow them to automatically check the
 security of anyone who's trying to connect.
 Right.
 Right.
 He also says, "If I'm at a secure site and I go to a web page on that site that has
 another page embedded in it as in a frame or an iframe, would the information be encrypted
 between my machine and that embedded page in the secure page?"
 That was a good question.
 That's a great question.
 Yeah.
 I wanted to include that.
 So the level of encryption is at the level of the connection.
 That is the asset or the resource which is being pulled from a remote server.
 So if you had a frame and the frame loaded a non-secure URL, your browser would make
 a non-secure connection so that the security on the outer frame or the outer page does
 not necessarily imply anything about the security of content inside.
 That's when I get that error message from my browser sometimes that says part of this
 page is encrypted and part of it is not encrypted.
 Is that what that's talking about?
 Just what I was going to mention.
 Exactly.
 There, for example, in IE and other browsers, sometimes it's called mixed content.
 The idea being that not all the assets on the page are secure, some, and it might just
 be images, for example, that they're going to a third-party server that is not a secure
 connection.
 And so it's saying, "Hey, you should know that some stuff on this page is not secure."
 So it may be that your browser will alert you, but it's not necessarily the case that
 unless you're sure that it's going to be a secure asset.
 I think some browsers have a modified key icon or lock icon when you're on a mixed site
 like that.
 That's funny, I don't remember for sure, but I've seen that.
 Two people asked questions relating to President Bush's proposal for tamper-proof ID cards.
 Steve Gilliam of Pinehurst, North Carolina, wrote, "President Bush recently said he wants
 to give tamper-proof digital fingerprint IDs to legal guest workers.
 How could public and private key encryption be used to generate these IDs and after it
 goes into effect, how would counterfeiters try to defeat it?"
 And that's one of the problems right now is that illegals often in fact have papers that
 look real because counterfeiters have gotten very good at forging birth certificates, social
 security numbers and that kind of thing.
 Sure.
 Go ahead and read Ben's question.
 Ben also asked the president, suggested we needed a document that includes biometric
 info to make a tamper-proof ID card so they'd check your fingerprint or your iris or whatever
 for every legal foreign worker.
 Do you think this can be done to a reliable degree?
 He says, "I'd tend to think this would require a federal database of the information on the
 ID card can be validated and probably so the card could be used as a kind of token.
 I would imagine that a fingerprint could be used like a key to unlock the encrypted
 info.
 But I wonder about the likelihood of a standard electronic fingerprint reader reading the
 same thumb each way, each time.
 I know when you come into the US from a number of nations, you do in fact get fingerprinted.
 In some cases, they also do iris recognition.
 I mean, this kind of system does exist.
 Well, I like this question because or both of these questions because it plays perfectly
 into the foundation in crypto that we've laid before.
 Now biometrics, of course, is sort of valuable but scary depending upon how it's employed.
 But our crypto side gives us enough of an understanding of how something like this could
 work.
 Imagine that you had an ID card.
 On the card was a picture of the person who had applied for the card and some printed
 textual information, you know, name, address, whatever, you know, textual ID that they want
 to have.
 Then on a, for example, on a mag stripe like we have on our credit cards, on a mag stripe,
 the same information that is a JPEG of the person's face and the same information printed
 on the front of the card would be on the stripe.
 All that we have to do is take that information and hash it as we've seen before that is create
 a digital signature of that information.
 Then somewhere there would be a master government public key which would, well, public and private
 key.
 The people generating these cards would use the private key to encrypt that digital signature
 and that's basically all we need to do.
 What that means then is that anybody carrying the card who wanted to have its authenticity
 verified could present it to anyone's reader anywhere.
 The reader would read the mag stripe, put the information up that is basically redisplay
 the photo and the textual information so that the operator could compare it to the person
 standing there.
 So in this sense, you know, the biometrics is a photo and of course people are pretty
 good about comparing pictures to people's faces and deciding, oh, that was you two years
 ago kind of thing.
 But the key is because this information had been digitally signed by the government,
 all of the readers would only need to have the government's matching public key so any
 reader could verify that this information, the information on the mag stripe, not necessarily
 the visible information on the front of the card but the information on the mag stripe
 had not been changed by a single bit and there's nothing then in terms of intellectual property
 that could be stolen from these readers.
 I mean, it could just be freeware that you load into a PC that has a little add-on mag
 stripe reader.
 Anybody could then verify that the digitally signed information on the mag stripe was originally
 signed by a government agency.
 So it's really just like me using my PGP key to sign my email.
 You can verify that I sent you that email that that was my key and that the email has
 been untampered with just by going to the PGP site and matching the keys.
 Exactly.
 It's an absolutely analogous application and crypto solves the problem for us.
 It's really amazing.
 Brian public key crypto and that's what's so great about public.
 Brian from Ontario, Canada writes, "I know you've never had an episode specifically about
 key loggers.
 I'm sure we'll rectify that at some point.
 But can a key logger be fooled if you use a program like RoboForm, which by the way is
 a great program I recommended.
 It fills out forms for you to fill in your passwords.
 What are the ways to fool key loggers if a big if a key logger manages to get on my system?
 I know software firewalls can warn you if a key logger phones home but viruses and spyware
 may be disabled your software firewall or frankly there are hardware keystroke loggers that you'd
 never see.
 Right.
 Yeah, I wanted to address this because we actually did discuss key logging stuff early
 in our podcasts when we were talking about passwords and entering passwords.
 Many people came up with clever ideas for defeating key loggers.
 I do remember that.
 Remember, typing a couple characters then clicking the mouse into a notepad, typing a
 few more, cutting and pasting, scrambling, there's all kinds of things you can do if
 you were concerned about that.
 It certainly is the case.
 First of all, RoboForm, which is down at the API of Windows, is not necessarily going to
 be proof from a key logger because in order to fill in these forms, most of these utilities
 and in order to be like a universal form filler, many of them literally simulate the keyboard.
 Interesting.
 I'm not being into the field so that the same hooks into the system which allow a key logger
 to see keystrokes will similarly see something like RoboForm basically typing that information
 in for you.
 And I guess it really depends on the key logger too because some are lower level than others
 and others some are higher level.
 I mean, true.
 If a keystroke logger is just looking for scan codes, well it probably would miss it but
 if it's working at the API level it would probably see it.
 And so actually some of the things that people suggested, some of the clever ideas in the
 brainstorming back at the beginning of our podcast series, I thought were very workable
 where nothing that was just looking at the keyboard would be able to tell where you were
 typing these things.
 So change your keyboard focus a few times, putting characters in different places so
 that the end result of the string you want to have correct is correct but nothing passively
 watching would be able to figure out what you had done.
 Unless it's smart enough to be watching those fields and looking at the input in those fields
 and stuff.
 I mean in other words, it depends on the keystroke logger.
 Yeah, bottom line is you really don't want to get anything bad in your system.
 No.
 And it's possible to put a keystroke logger on your keyboard that memorizes stuff.
 If you use a public terminal.
 Public access terminal.
 Very likely or not very likely but very possible that all your keystrokes are being
 logged but RoboForm would avoid it in that case.
 Of course there's probably enough traces behind that it wouldn't make any difference.
 Brian of Everett Washington is concerned about MD5 hashes.
 In one of your cryptography podcasts you talked about the MD5 cryptographic hash as a way to
 verify downloaded files.
 However, I just read on the internet the MD5 algorithm has recently been found to be unreliable
 and hash is generated with it can be cracked.
 I think we talked a little bit about this.
 He says, is it true a different internet site talking about MD5 said you could salt
 an MD5 hash to prevent it from being broken?
 What exactly does salting a hash mean?
 It sounds like something they did in the Navy.
 But does this fix the problem or is the MD5 algorithm truly unreliable?
 Okay, there are a couple things.
 MD5 generates 128 bit hash which is beginning to be not long enough.
 So there are now 256 bit hashes and 512 bit hashes which are arguably way overkill but
 with computers being as fast as they are and storage being as big as it is there just isn't
 really a reason not to use a larger hash to prevent hash collisions which is what adding
 bits more bit length to the hash does.
 So on one side it's worth mentioning that this 128 bit is a little short.
 But what the sites are talking about are something we've discussed in the context of
 hashing before which is brute forcing a hash.
 If you use an unsalted MD5 what sites are doing is they're pre-computing for many common
 passwords and pass phrases that is up to a certain length, you start getting too many
 of them as the length grows, they pre-compute the hash.
 So you end up with a huge table of hashes and the password that if you hashed it would
 result in that hash.
 So what salting does, salting adds some extra fluff, some extra stuff to the input in order
 to completely change the output.
 So for example if you put in the word dog into an MD5 hash you're always going to get
 the same 128 bits out no matter how many times you put the word dog in.
 So in a pre-computation dictionary attack on MD5 the hash for dog would probably be
 there.
 If somebody tried it then they'd be able to figure out what your password was because
 you'd chosen a really bad password, I mean there's no way that dog is a good password
 to have.
 On the other hand if you just added for example a minus sign or an underscore or some sort
 of what's called salt to the hash then that would completely change the output so that
 you'd get I mean with any good hashing algorithm a completely different set of 128 bits.
 So adding any other debris to the algorithm will completely change the result and render
 it basically uncrackable to this kind of brute force attack.
 But you can't just add it to the hash it has to be the decoding program has to know about
 this underscore you can't just make up something and put it in the hash.
 So the idea would be for example UNIX systems use a salted MD5 they've got some junk that
 is unique to the system which they always add when anyone types in a password so that
 nobody who sees the resulting hash is able to you know basically have a universal crack
 for the system.
 Ah very clever, very nice.
 Carl Schweitzer of Hillbert Wisconsin managed to untangle last week's discussion of the
 stack and buffer overruns actually surprisingly large number people wrote to us thanking us
 for it and saying they got it and that's great.
 I mean that was one of the more complicated things we've discussed in the podcast.
 I think I use I think I use the term aggressively technical as.
 But he did have a question he said when it comes to the stack why did it have to write
 up wouldn't it be more secure to write down or is there something more complicated going
 on with that.
 Okay now I didn't quite get his question on he's talking about why does it go up in
 memory instead of down in memory but I don't think any difference doesn't actually there's
 something brilliant about this which I really liked the first of all he says why does it
 write up meaning why does your when you are when you're overflowing the buffer you're
 going from lower memory to higher memory and that's writing up the stack and that's overwriting
 the stuff that's higher in the stack which is critical information from previous programs
 or previous subroutines because as we remember from last week the stack grows downwards well
 his point was if buffers overflowed the other direction then they wouldn't be overwriting
 the previous information they just be writing they be overwriting stuff that wasn't allocated
 yet on the stack well he's completely correct now so why do they do it that way exactly
 I mean they should I mean I love the question it's wait a minute wait a minute you're turning
 years of computer science on its head literally well okay now first of all it's not easy from
 a practical standpoint to to fill buffers downwards that is you know just everything
 about the way we think has has a buffer being filled from from lower memory to higher memory
 but what if you did that you would still overwrite you could overwrite in the negative
 number well but but hold on but if the stack instead started at the bottom and grew upwards
 yeah and there's no reason it can't right if the stack start at the bottom and grew upward
 so you're saying if it started at at memory location zero or well zero not everybody
 really zero let's say whatever zero is some some on you know arbitrary zero and then and
 then allocating memory on the stack you do by moving your stack pointer up to us like
 a certain amount now what's happened is you've reserved all of that memory below that point
 for your own use anybody else you want some they move the pointer up and now they have
 they've reserved that region that they just moved the pointer across for their own purpose
 and and the beauty of this is the the person who is who is currently using the stack is
 the so-called is like that on the top of the stack and if stacks grew from the bottom
 up instead of from the top down then buffer overruns would overrun out into unused stack
 space not already used stack space it's brilliant I mean it would really work and it would solve
 the problem somehow I think there's more to it than that all right if it were that simple
 wouldn't somebody have done this no I thought because again I'm no I mean all of this was
 set up long before this ever became a problem I exactly that's exactly at Leo is that it's
 a little more elegant from a from an architectural standpoint to have for reasons that are sort
 of complicated and deal with the way pointers are handled to have the stack growing down
 from the top of memory is is architecturally simpler but it was just done that way basically
 as an arbitrary choice someone said show we have it come down from the top or up from
 the bottom and it's a little simpler to have it come down from the top but but in terms
 of the problems that it creates the idea that overrunning the allocation if you have if
 you're coming down from the top you're inherently overriding the information of someone who's
 who's already allocated information on the stack right before you somebody else's stack
 frame somebody else's stack exactly but if you but literally if you allocate instead from
 the bottom up you don't overrun it's it's wonderful okay I know we're gonna hear from
 Randall Schwartz or one of our other programmers is gonna say something but I but I can't think
 of what it could be maybe you're right and maybe this is a maybe this is a way to design
 a whole new architecture Garrett of Rochester Minnesota is wondering about Skype security
 that's what we use of course to do the show he says how could I properly configure Skype
 for the best security I'm sitting behind in that router with universal plug and play turned
 off and all the security settings on high anything else I need to do for a Skype connection
 um no yeah we don't do anything particular exactly now the the one the one you're gonna
 give away our secret well the one the one gotcha is it can be useful to allow incoming
 connections to Skype in situations where both people who want to connect a conversation
 are behind Nat routers but in this case Garrett was asking about Skype out connections where
 he's using Skype to connect to the Skype servers in order to to use Skype sort of as his telephone
 system isn't that I mean that's how Skype avoids Nat issues is we're always going through
 a server to make the connection right um well no between two users there's a server to rendezvous
 the two users yes so we don't have to worry about the incoming connection because I've already
 established a connection with the Skype server exactly exactly so so so so Garrett is completely
 secure he's behind a in that router which is giving him the inherent stateful firewall
 action that that Nat does he's got universal plug and play turned off so nothing nasty
 is able to reconfigure his router behind his back to open ports and he's calling out he's
 connecting out to the Skype servers for his Skype out service and so nothing is able to
 connect back in but I wouldn't have an issue I mean and I don't have an issue if you call
 me on on Skype right I mean once I've logged into Skype anybody can call in as well correct
 so that we get that again because it has a third party server I thought you were going
 to reveal our secret which I don't want anybody to know about how we get these Skype calls
 to sound good too so good which is that we use a dedicated Skype report what you told
 me to do this and I have to say it has improved the quality of the Skype calls why well because
 I've configured my Skype so that I'm able to I have basically of course a non-default
 random port where where incoming Skype connections are able to reach me you can do that in the
 Skype preferences it's in the base preferences and the reason I have a Nat hostile network
 configuration as you can imagine Leo my security here is pretty strong and you and I when we
 were connecting we're not able to get a direct a direct connection because my Nat router
 wouldn't allow it so that so the art dialogue was going through a so-called super node it
 was being relayed by a third party and what when you were telling me that you and I were
 having such great success with Skype but but you were having some trouble with other uses
 of Skype when you were talking to people that's when I suggested well if if you did
 the same thing if you allowed a fixed port to come all the way in from the internet to
 your Skype then then basically you know if you then it's like you're only behind a single
 Nat router that is the the person you're connecting to is only behind a single Nat router they
 are always able to initiate a connection through to you so a super node is never used and you
 get this kind of Skype quality every time the supernoser clever hack that the Skype folks
 did so that you don't have router problems not router problems but it but you can avoid
 it by using a dedicated port now I do that unilaterally right I don't have to tell them
 what port I'm using I just I just choose a dedicated port in my connection exactly and
 suddenly you're just a a higher quality Skype connector location do I have to open that
 port on my router or anything like yes you have yes yes yes you do need to have that port
 mapped through so that somebody the idea is that that if if both people at each end of
 a Skype conversation are behind Nat routers then the they may not be able to negotiate
 to connect to each other directly on the fly and for for complex reasons of the way networks
 but if either of the per of the people will create a statically mapped port through their
 Nat router then the other person can always send a packet directly to that port and the
 whole Skype protocol manages making sure that everyone knows what the port is you know our
 secret it really does work it makes a huge difference and not for everybody but it does
 on those people who have and and you map just TCP or is it UDP or what what do you have
 to map it just UDP just UDP okay now I've given away our secret we have no advantage
 whatsoever anymore that's all right except our great good looks Kim white of a secunda
 South Africa wonders about securing mobile laptops I have a question pertaining to security
 of notebooks could you guys do an episode on securing a notebook so that when not if it
 gets stolen the data should be safe I've seen some ideas that use USB keys and so forth
 that are used as tokens but these only protect from log in what about from boot the drive
 is locked from boot and there's almost no way that the data can be stolen my concern
 is that most of my laptop users have IP's from large corporations here in South Africa
 it's worth hundred or not IP addresses intellectual property I should say right hundreds of millions
 of dollars in the open market he's concerned and this happens all the time in fact it happened
 very famously to the British Secret Service whose laptops were stolen and and secrets were
 escaped well of course you know in the news from time to time you hear about exactly this
 kind of problem laptop you know is like left unattended briefly in an airport and it disappears
 some some corporation has a ton of valuable data on their laptop okay there are there are
 a couple things going on some IBM think pads actually work with the the drives serial number
 to to lock the laptop drive so that it will not boot unless a password is given at boot
 time to unlock the drive that's that that's very good security but it has cause problems
 because it is such good security that if that password is ever lost you're hosed I mean
 there there is no way short of returning the drive to the manufacturer to unlock the drive
 and the problem of course is that this is not generally done this is not generally available
 on most laptops so a solution that is laptop specific may not be a good one either it's
 often said that if somebody has physical access to a machine eventually they can get the data
 and that's not true no no because and this is going to be the topic of next week's security
 now podcast we're going to talk about true crypt yeah we love true crypt it is a it is
 a fantastic open source encryption solution now what what what what Kim's company would
 have to do would be I mean and this is not just trivial to do but it would the idea would
 be that the the the the most laptops are configured with everything sitting in a one single huge
 sea partition you know from from a of a windows drive designation standpoint what what you need
 to do is do some preparation for this the idea being that you create another drive where all
 of the intellectual property resides and and you just have the discipline to keep everything
 that you need to have safe in this second drive and then a program like true like true crypt
 which will be talking about next week is able to provide unbreakable I mean truly state of
 the art you know past the end of the time of the universe style encryption to prevent
 anyone from accessing that inadvertently and it can be configured so that if the drive
 is turned off if it goes into standby if it's unattended for a certain length of time that
 you you must reenter a password in order to access that contents and and it works for laptops
 it works well you know for PC desktops anything true crypt is a fantastic solution which is
 why we're going to be covering it in detail next week generally people set true crypts
 so that it automatically unlocks once you log in so you might want to put on the BIOS passwords
 and the login passwords and all that stuff just to you know keep it a little more difficult
 to log into the computer well yes certainly if what you're suggesting is that they have
 true crypt configured so that you don't need to enter a password which is for convenience
 is good then you've been well you've basically defeated the whole purpose unless well yeah
 I understand but you but if you turn on the you haven't really because as long as you trust
 Windows login XB's login to be secure right because if they remove the hard drive they're
 not going to be to log in without your password yeah by the way max have the similar built
 into the operating system a similar strong encryption called file vault does the same
 thing as true crypt does but it also is set to when you log in unlock and in that case
 you want to modify your firmware so that nobody can change the master password right but a
 good system we like true crypt you can even put it on a USB key a band writing anonymously
 from his Gmail account asks the question is probably really dumb maybe that's why I wanted
 to be anonymous but I have locked I have looked every place for somewhere to download PGP
 and every site I try leads me the same place PGP.com he doesn't want PGP desktop 9.0 which
 isn't free can you please send me a link to a site where you can download a free PGP program
 well and Leo we know what that is yes and you talk about it and that's what you use what
 I use which is the open source version of PGP this the story is long entanglement Phil
 Zimmerman originally made PGP open source but the assets of PGP and the intellectual
 property was sold to a corporation which still if you search at PGP.com long enough offers
 a free version but it's a long hard search and not worth it when you can just go to GNU
 privacy guard GNU P G dot org and download an open source free version of PGP and that's
 what I use on the Mac and what I everybody should just use right well when I saw this
 question from Ben I just I just went to Google and put in GNU space PGP GNU PGP and took
 me right there yeah so that's how anybody can find it they call it new privacy guard
 to avoid the copyright trade marks the PGP yeah that's a GNU P G dot oracle I'll do the
 job and it's great I mean I it works on all machines it uses PGP style keys in fact I'm
 reusing PGP keys that I made it's completely interoperable well and PGP is now an RFC
 standard there there's an RFC so good so it's been well defined so you don't have to go
 to the PGP corporation to get to get real PGP yes it's real PGP even without it
 I'm Jason in Madison Wisconsin received a nasty gram from his corporate IT department
 who I hate those he writes I just received a nasty gram essentially stating that I must
 remove Skype from my laptop because quote it is P to P or peer to peer software that
 lets viruses in end quote there words not mine what are the security risks posed by Skype
 I realize my company may have a bandwidth issue regarding the super node feature and
 Skype but is there something else Skype users should be aware of that's a great question
 well it is and and I wanted to I wanted to to first say that if this is a corporate laptop
 and it's their property then you want to make sure this doesn't get escalated beyond
 an nasty gram because they can do anything they want yes you got certainly you could
 argue that this is their computer you're using I mean if that's the case and that they have
 a right to specify what software is used on it what will not even if you bring your computer
 into the corporate network they can tell you what programs you may and may not use sure
 that's their right it's their resource exactly so so the the he brings up the issue of super
 node which we were just talking about and about the bandwidth being consumed and it sounds
 like his corporate IT department somehow discovered that he was using Skype on his laptop all
 of that sounds like he does not have a firewall running on his laptop because you can't be
 a super node if you have a router or a firewall exactly you wouldn't you you you you super
 nodes are are random Skype users who are not behind a net router or a firewall who suddenly
 discovered that they're being used as a relay point for other people that Skype cannot otherwise
 connect between and we should point out that that should be a small number of people is
 getting smaller all the time I mean who's on the internet without a firewall or a router
 come on it is it is an annoyance that Skype provides no user interface option you can't
 turn off exactly for disallowing super node usage of your own client so so I would tell
 Jason that if you know if he wants to continue using Skype and I would imagine he's behind
 Windows XP or he he's using Windows XP that if he turns on the service pack to firewall
 that ought to be built in or uses any third party firewall so that inbound connections
 are not allowed he should be able to use Skype without any trouble and there's no way his
 IT department could ever determine that that's what he was doing but again I'm not suggesting
 that he goes against the wishes of his his corporate IT people but you know their argument
 that Skype is peer to peer and therefore is and for that reason should not be used I think
 that doesn't hold much water but I can certainly understand understand them not wanting to get
 into all this is there right not to but there I think they're somehow conflating it with
 the Napster or Morpheus or you know one of those peer to peer it's not peer to peer that
 way right yeah although I think there is some kind of tenuous connection with Kazaa I seem
 to remember but that's not the peer to peer that's in fact it was the Skype it was the
 Kazaa guys who figured out natural reversal right who then started Skype and used that
 natural reversal technology from their peer to peer experience in order to create a system
 that just works behind that router so easily but it's not sharing music you're not allowing
 virus I don't think there's any way I mean it's not allowing viruses in is it no of course
 not no no unless you know somebody sends you a file and you accept it well in fact at the
 beginning of this podcast Leo I sent you a PDF and we use Skype in order to send a to
 do a file transfer because it worked beautifully and you can do that and chat clients and instant
 messenger clients and so forth right in fact the truth is if they allow any instant messenger
 at all it's no different than Skype I mean aim Yahoo all of these offer voice in and over
 the Internet in very much the same way Skype does right Russell of Salt Lake City asks we
 all know that chat clients hope speak speak of the devil chat clients like MSN aim and
 Yahoo messenger about as insecure as it gets as far as the channel communication goes my
 question is regarding Google chat I'm not talking about the standalone Google chat client but
 that when you log into your email account this is something new they just added at using
 HTTP s colon slash slash gmail.google.com in that web interface you're able to conduct
 chats so my question is you know I'm inside the secure server HTTPS I'm encrypted and
 secure am I or is it using a different port I mean it is my chat secure right well this
 is really interesting and I thought this was a great question the the you have security guaranteed
 by HTTPS that is by an SSL connection which we know is really good security from from your
 browser to Google the problem is everything that you are chatting with then goes through
 Google's servers and who's to say that that next year Google's not going out gonna announce
 hey by the way you can search for everything you ever chatted about which they might because
 we've been sucking it all in and keeping it forever you know and it's a possibility Google
 tends to do that so you know with our government becoming increasingly concerned about you know
 terrorist activities within our borders and all of this NSA eavesdropping and you know now
 all of our phone records being sucked up and analyzed I would be concerned using any third
 party server to be the relay point for my chats there is a very good very secure chat
 client called bit wise I am oh yeah we like that yes in fact you and I Leo use it because
 it also offers VoIP services although the quality still wasn't up to oh in fact it uses
 the Speaks codec which is why we gave it a try but it still wasn't up to what the G
 IPS the global IP sound technology that Skype is using is able to give us so we backed away
 from it for our for our our podcast recordings but bit wise space I am if you just go to Google
 and put it in bit wise I am for instant messenger I know the author I've interacted with him
 in fact I worked with him to improve his nat traversal technology so that it works a lot
 better than it did before it really this guy is a neat guy it's cross-platform Mac Linux
 and Windows and it just look you know if you're looking for something that isn't a huge bull's
 eye that isn't the same sort of target MSN and aim and Yahoo and Google are where you where
 you want to do point-to-point chat and not run through a third-party server oh and everything
 is encrypted so it's very strongly encrypted chat it's what I would recommend there are
 corporate versions available of aim and MSN that provide encryption as well but this is
 just you know you just download it it's free and it's easy to use yeah that's great David
 from Bozier City Louisiana discovered security now two weeks ago welcome David he just he
 says he just finished listening to all 39 episodes whoa okay he must be a little exhausted right
 now he had a question that yeah I think that's great he had a question about Linux open source
 and buffer overruns he says unless I'm misunderstanding something I would think there would be more
 exploits from buffer overruns with Linux since it's open source and a programmer could see all
 the problems in the code easier than Windows in other words could find these holes or does
 that make it less likely that problems with things like buffer overruns because the number
 of eyes looking at the code in the open source community I asked because I I would think this
 may be one of the great concepts that comes in the open source community and wondered your
 thoughts this is actually a common area of discussion among open source folks I would
 say that it is the big unresolved issue that's why I thought this was a great question that
 David had posed is I mean and it's it's a religious battle in the same way that you know
 Mac versus Windows is sort of a religious thing it's it's you know closed versus open source
 exactly closed versus open what is more secure you made a comment that I didn't react to last
 week when we were talking about buffer overruns which was that many of these are discovered
 by people just pounding on the code and in fact the guys at E.I. down in Eliso Viejo they've
 got a room full of machines that just throw junk at software and when one of those machines
 crashes it's because they just found some new buffer override so they basically have
 a million monkeys in a room trying to crack it yeah and that's kind of finding stuff all
 the time right in exactly this fashion whereas you could look at a source listing of a program
 if you were really an accomplished programmer or accomplished hacker and and perhaps find
 buffer overflows I guess you know it comes down to the the choice of of security through
 obscurity that is you're secure because it's kind of hidden or or true security which is
 that it's opened it's exposed and and you know people yes we'll find it but people will
 also fix it right away I I bet on open source to be honest with you but that is a religious
 battle you're right my sense is that from a from a programmer standpoint if there were
 backdoors deliberately programmed into code you those would be found immediately right
 in an open source environment which is why PGP was open I mean I wouldn't trust any encryption
 program that wasn't open source because you need to know what they put in there and so
 that's the advantage of open source but but the nature of buffer overruns is that that
 it wasn't clear to the programmer who wrote it and when you look at the source code there's
 this inherent tendency to adopt that same mindset and to sort of follow along with the
 code it's just so hard to see the mistakes that somebody has made even when you're looking
 at it so I don't think that open source would be more secure because people would tend to
 find other people's mistakes people tend to just read along and you know get through the
 job that they're doing it's it's more the case that you find these things sort of just
 by pounding on the code exactly as you had said last week and there's certainly I mean
 the truth is there have been plenty of buffer overflow exploits in open source software certainly
 no programmers immune from it that's a very good point and you know here's the question
 I mean if you if you write a module and or a part of a major open source program is anybody
 going to rewrite it or check it for security maybe maybe not well and that's actually that's
 a very good point too it's it's cool that this source is open but many people wonder if anyone
 else ever looks at the source code again I mean in theory they do I mean there's somebody
 with commit access to an open source project who's supposed to review all this stuff but
 it's you know I mean yeah I think there's no guarantee it's been highly reviewed well
 yeah a perfect example is my use of of a news server a GRC runs a very active wonderful
 set of news groups relating to security and privacy anyone who's got a news reader and
 in fact everybody who is using a contemporary browser probably has a news reader built in
 you can just go you can aim your news reader at news dot GRC dot com and we've got a new
 server with a bunch of fantastic news groups there well I've got all kinds of extra features
 that over the years I've built into our new server like we have secure authentication
 and people who post notices are able to delete theirs but nobody else can can delete theirs
 and I've I've taken the open source standard INN new server and thanks to it being open
 source I've gone in and and made a whole bunch of custom enhancements for you know basically
 turning it into a hybrid adding a bunch of GRC stuff which I would never have been able
 to do if it were just some new server I'd bought in executable code fashion and then
 inherently been unable to modify so it's a boon for a programmer but it's not clear
 to me you know that from a standpoint of you know tons of people going over the source
 code if problems are gonna be found that way well when you over yet Steve you're getting
 a sound like an open source kind of guy I have to say you know it also depends on how
 low level the code is I think if it's a if it's a PHP you know message boards a system
 a lot more people are looking at the code than if it's an assembly language kernel module
 well and that's a perfect example too of something that is very vulnerable a PHP based
 message board system is inherently you know it's like sticking its face out there on the
 net and looking for someone to find a way to exploit it and of course we know that there's
 just you know PHP exploits by the hundreds a month right right our last question Paul
 winners nestled in the Colorado Rockies asks I'd love to hear your comments Steve on recent
 legislative proposals to have ISPs maintain logs of all activity what good would this
 be if a user is using VPN or encryption of any kind he is completely correct I mean it
 is disturbing when we see legislation I mean and the ISPs are as disturbed as their users
 they don't want to do this no it's a huge burden the idea being that they've got to maintain
 logs for law enforcement to use in order to track down illicit activity I mean it's a
 good thing if it works it's hugely burdensome for ISPs and then you end up you know with
 people feeling like their ISPs are spying on them much as we do now with you know all
 of our phone records going to the government for processing and analysis and so the question
 was does running all this traffic through a VPN solve the problem and the answer is yes
 there is again contemporary VPN technology cannot be broken and all and ISP would have
 is let me literally random bits of data because as we know from our security podcasts once
 you have true security the data that results from good encryption is indistinguishable from
 random noise yeah so that's all an ISP would be able to see yeah I mean I have to say I'm
 using encryption more and more although you know in Britain the house of commons I guess
 just proposed a bill I'm not sure where the bill came from the legislative against encryption
 no to make you illegal actually no I take it back this has always been the law but they've
 never enforced it now they're talking about enforcing it that you must reveal your password
 or decrypt if requested to by law enforcement and if you don't you just go straight to jail
 wow and I think that that's going to be a con commitment of any kind of move like this
 if they're starting to log all the information and the encryption is widely available well
 you've got to pass a law saying that you have to hand over the keys so that's interesting
 so the idea being that if if they capture a bunch of this random noise we're talking
 about they can go to the guy and they say to you you must tell us yeah exactly basically
 we we are legally compelling you to decrypt this data so that we can see it you have to
 or suffer the consequences go to jail anyway wow whether you've done anything wrong or
 not so and I think that every I have a feeling that every major industrial nation will pass
 laws like this because that's the only way to deal with encryption and crime especially
 description encryption becomes more well-known and commonly available in that well and as
 I mean here here we've been talking about the NSA literally eavesdropping on the content
 of calls to where they have reason to suspect that there's something bad going on and it's
 like well okay all you have to do is use VoIP encrypted because we know no one as far as
 we know not even the NSA is able to decrypt deeply encrypted you know state of the art
 encryption on the flip side if this legislation passes then all they do is collect the data
 and compel you to decrypt it for right wow I mean it makes sense but you know it's not
 easy to feel so smug now about encryption yeah in fact there's some even some move that
 the UK may actually ahead of time ask businesses to hand over the cryptographic keys just in
 case just in case hmm it's a I don't want to get you upset I know how you feel about
 these things where can we move to nowhere that's the problem now that's why one of the
 things we like about true crypt is this plausible deniability it doesn't even look like encrypted
 data it just looks like noise yep but if you've got noise I guess you could say if if if you
 were on your internet service provider and sending something that sounded like noise you
 could say what are you talking about that must have just been a burst of noise prove prove
 that it's not encryption what encryption yeah yeah exactly I mean in fact it is not it is
 not possible to prove that encrypted data is not random noise right so maybe that's our
 defense there we go we solve the problem I hope yeah good luck what do we do we have a
 plan for next week or are we going to wing it well if you're not going to make me prove
 that a stack is much better I guarantee you I'm going to hear from Randall Schwartz and
 he's going to explain but there's no other way to do it but anyway we'll see maybe you
 know any a good very well send me an email saying you're right why don't why did I think
 of that but other than that do you have any other ideas next week is true crypt oh we'll
 do crude great can't wait that'll be a lot of fun we do thank you for joining us thanking
 our friends of course at a star operation for making this possible we couldn't do it without
 them and they've they just been so generous our great sponsor if you are interested in
 security you should know the name of star if you're interested in open source you should
 know the name of star they make great open source security solutions like the star security
 gateway for your business or even if you're a home user for you absolutely free you download
 it and put it on a PC and you've got all sorts of great security you can pay a little bit
 more and even get anti spam and anti virus and spyware and filtering to well and thanks
 for the fact that it is using you know lean and mean open source OS and solutions you can
 take that old tranky machine from the garage that you know no longer play games anymore
 and and turn it into a really nice internet firewall appliance download your free copy
 today at AST a R O dot com and of course it's not exactly a sponsor but we do give a lot
 of credit to spin right because that is Steve's day job and without it well I we'd have to
 find a way to pay him or something it keeps the lights on and it helps people all the
 time yeah it's wonderful if you want to read some testimonials for how people have used
 spin right to recover their data to save their drives to save their lives go to spin
 right dot info s p i n r i t e dot info go to g r c dot com slash security now dot h t
 m if or I guess you go to security now dot info for a while anyway to get the show notes
 sixteen kilobit versions of the show for the bandwidth impaired and full transcripts thanks
 to Elaine of each and every show of course Steve's notes about the topics we talk about
 it's also a good place to read the security news groups that he has going there at g r c
 dot com and even submit your questions for future editions of security now g r c dot com
 that's the home of spin right and security now thanks to our friends at a o l radio for
 providing the bandwidth for this podcast a l dot com slash and podcasting and thanks
 to you Steve Gibson for being such a dude always enjoy this Leo it's really fun thank you we'll
 see you next thursday on security now security now security now
