 ♪♪
 NetCasts you love.
 From people you trust.
 ♪♪
 This is Twit.
 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by
 CashFly at C-A-C-A-G-E-F-L-Y.com.
 ♪♪
 This is Security Now, as Steve Gibson.
 Our Christmas Day special,
 Episode 436 for December 25,
 2013.
 Time traveling with Steve.
 ♪♪
 It's time for Security Now, wait a minute.
 Let me change the colors, ladies and gentlemen,
 because it's our special Christmas episode.
 Steve Gibson is here.
 Ho, ho, ho, Steve.
 Yo, Leo.
 Last one of the year.
 We made it through 2013.
 I can't believe it's going to be 2014 already.
 I've changed the lights,
 normally blue, behind us, to red and green.
 It's significant.
 Oh, very nice.
 Steve did something very interesting.
 You know, most of our other shows on this whole week
 were on hiatus.
 We're letting our staff go home.
 And so most of the other shows are best ofs.
 But Steve doesn't like to rehash old security news,
 and frankly, what use would it be anyway?
 Yeah.
 So you've got something even older.
 We have -- Yes.
 So everyone remembers, last year I had that fun blast
 from the past where I did the --
 I showed the presentation I had made to soft sell
 a software distributor.
 Ever since I have been working with you, Leo,
 and appearing on screensavers and call for help and so forth,
 I've been collecting VHS tapes of those appearances.
 And I have -- I dug into my archive,
 and I found the first three things, essentially,
 that you and I did together.
 15 years ago was the first time you and I met.
 June 17th, 1998, on the set of the screensavers
 in South San Francisco, when Spinrite 5 had come out,
 and people were reporting that their zip and jazz
 Iomega drives were being cured by Spinrite.
 There was something called click of death.
 Anyway, so what I have is my appearance on with you 15 years ago,
 my hair was dark, and there was like a sort of an obvious bald spot back there.
 It's a little less obvious now.
 And, you know, and -- but the other thing is that the commercials
 from then were just -- they were funny.
 They were, like, really great.
 And so this is a time capsule special.
 I've got that one, then -- and then in December of 1999,
 Kate Patello, who was your co-host on the screensavers,
 discovered Shields Up.
 I had just put it up.
 I'd created it, but it wasn't well-known at the time, and it was news to you.
 She was over getting a copy of Spinrite, and she says, "What's Shields Up?"
 And so she clicks the button and it says, "Hello, Kate."
 And it's like, "Wait a minute. How does he know my name?"
 No. So this -- so the second one here of the three is the first appearance of Shields Up,
 and you and Kate looking at it.
 And then the fourth one was March 3rd of 2000,
 is where I came on to your call for help show.
 And together, we introduced the concept of port probing and a firewall.
 I made the prediction that someday all personal computers were going to have firewalls built in.
 And that was like, "Wow, you think so? Well, I think that's probably likely because they really should."
 And at that time, of course, Zone Alarm was our favorite.
 So anyway, I think we've got a really fun -- it's about an hour-long blast from the past time capsule.
 And since I've got so many more of these, I think we'll probably be doing this, make this an annual tradition.
 I love it. I love it. I love it.
 I hope you're having a happy holiday, everybody.
 And I thank Steve Gibson for many years now. We're in our seventh or eighth year doing this show.
 We are. And we and I have been together for 15.
 15. I owe you a case of burgundy.
 So now with that -- or is it Cabernet? It's Cabernet, isn't it?
 I'm a cab guy. I bought some cabs just for you.
 So when you come up next week, we're going to -- special, by the way -- special New Year's Eve show.
 And next Tuesday, New Year's Eve Day, Steve will be in studio.
 He will do security now then, instead of our normal Wednesday on New Year's Day.
 And we'll have a little Cabernet.
 Sounds great.
 Meanwhile, we go back in time, 15 years.
 This is the very earliest days of Tech TV and the screen savers watch.
 Hey, welcome to the screen savers. I'm Leo LaPord.
 And I'm Kate Patello. Thank you for joining us. It's a big chip.
 Coming up on today's show, there's been -- there's been a lot of controversy surrounding problems
 with the zip and jazz discs from I Omega.
 Today, we're going to take a closer look. This is something you're really going to want to watch.
 At the so-called "click death." We're going to talk to a leading authority.
 One of the great disc gurus of all time a man I've admired for many years.
 columnist Steve Gibson will join us. Talk about click death.
 Let you know what you can do and what you shouldn't do about it.
 This is going to be cool. Plus, by popular demand, we're going to show
 you finally how to back up computer data on video cassettes using your VCR.
 We promise.
 Sounds like a very bad idea.
 That's coming up later today in fresh gear.
 Big news story, hot news story. I'm going to show you this here, folks.
 Ladies and gentlemen.
 There's been a miracle.
 A miracle happened. It happened in a coffee bar, local coffee bar in San Francisco's
 multimedia Gulch. Take a look at this.
 This latte, unre-touched photo of a cafe latte with Bill Gates image on it.
 Ladies and gentlemen, Bill Gates has appeared in a latte.
 There's more. Don't go away.
 There's more because later in the day, this latte, of course, was sitting on the counter.
 Later in the day, it grew eyebrows and hair.
 And he was happy, of course.
 Unbelievable. They're worshipping at the shrine already.
 And then shocking belief, beyond belief, a flower.
 It started feeling decorative.
 But later in the day, due to a tragic mishap, the latte was consumed by somebody who looked
 surprisingly like our very own alley.
 It's like an alley.
 That's right.
 Allie, you killed Bill Gates.
 You drank Bill Gates.
 All right.
 We'll talk to Allie in a moment.
 Before we get to your call, some quick news from the world of computing action.
 Actually, it's a story that's been going on for years.
 And it's an interesting story.
 Executive compensation.
 Is it too high?
 Are people paying -- are companies paying the CEOs too much?
 You know, I did a little search out here.
 Okay.
 Gilla Mille, of course, a good example.
 Here's a guy who, in about 18 months with apple computer, lost billions of dollars for apple.
 Took home, an executive golden parachute, worth millions and millions of apple was leasing
 his plane from him so he could fly around in it.
 Yeah, well, they pay people to go away.
 There's an example of a bad thing.
 On the other hand, you look at a company like Microsoft, Bill Gates, chairman of the board
 of the number one computer company in the world.
 What is his salary?
 $349.
 A mere -- $349.
 Did I leave something out?
 $1000.
 And a mere bonus of 241 days.
 You know, he's not 600,000 for a guy, you know, multi-billionaire.
 Of course, he doesn't get stock options, but of course he owns about 30% of the company.
 He does get miracle rights.
 I think there are a lot of guys, the chairman of NBC, actually General Electric, Jack Welch,
 $6 million a year with stock options, bonuses and salary.
 That seems a little obscene, don't you?
 Yeah, can we explain this a little bit?
 These guys sit on each other's boards of directors and to prove each other's raises.
 That's a good point.
 That's how this gets so high.
 It's kind of a funny yes and no question because everybody's going to say they're paid too
 much except for the CEOs, right?
 Oh, CEOs say we're wrong.
 That's right.
 No, CEOs say that.
 In fact, companies say we've got to pay them this much because these guys are that good.
 They add that much value to the company.
 And if we don't pay them that much, somebody else is going to come along and steal them.
 What do you think?
 Here's your chance to let us know.
 Are corporate executives, particularly CEOs, particularly in the computer industry, paid too much?
 You give us a call, 888-989-7879.
 Or send us an email to thescreensavers@cdtv.com.
 And the chat room, of course, as you see at the bottom of the screen, is available by going
 to our website, zdtv.com/thescreensavers.
 Click on the chat link and get on in there.
 Let us know what you think.
 That's the fastest, easiest way to give us your opinion.
 Are corporate CEOs overpaid?
 Hmm.
 I know if I were making that much money, I'd say yeah.
 You'd say no.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Oh, I see.
 Give me the money.
 Show me the money.
 Let's talk to Ally.
 All right.
 Hi, Ally.
 She of the miraculous latte this morning.
 Did you drink Bill Gates' face?
 You killed it.
 He was cold.
 I've heard that, actually.
 They say that about it.
 Oh.
 You know, it's funny, though, because every day I religiously, you know, buy my latte.
 We know this.
 And we have a little discussion.
 I have a discussion with Ted who makes the latte about what the foam means today.
 You know?
 Mm-hmm.
 And then finally, we had our miracle today.
 Today, we know what the foam means.
 Meaning of the foam.
 Yeah.
 Pretty amazing.
 That's right.
 Look at that.
 It's a Bill Gates in a cup.
 So do you have any?
 You just love that.
 It's not classic.
 And there was no design in that, honestly.
 That's exactly how it appeared.
 That's exactly.
 There was no stirring.
 Nothing.
 That was it.
 That's perfect.
 Oh, that's perfect.
 Yeah.
 So, Ellie?
 Yeah.
 Do you have, like, do we have, like, questions and stuff?
 Like, you know, an email?
 Yeah.
 Oh, sure.
 Oh, cool.
 Yeah.
 We actually have one from Jay in Baytown, Texas.
 Baytown, Texas.
 Baytown.
 And he's actually, you know, being very courageous and building his own multiprocessor.
 And he's been told by the locals that you can only use a genuine intel in a multiprocessor system.
 The locals.
 The locals in Texas now.
 Yeah, but you know, you can't use a genuine intel process.
 Now, I can do that because I am was born a Texan and I can twang with you.
 Right.
 There you go.
 So what's the question?
 You know, everyone's an expert when it comes to these things.
 So what does he want to know?
 Well, he wants to know.
 He's going to be running NT on it and possibly, you know, NT 5 when it comes out.
 All right.
 It's the AMK AMD K62 going to work, going to use it in a multiprocessor.
 Bring me the chalkboard.
 I'm sorry.
 Did I shout that?
 No.
 Fetch me the chalkboard.
 Thank you, Allie.
 We'll answer this question.
 We'll take care of this.
 This one is so all yours.
 Bring me the chalkboard.
 I know that processor's exciting.
 First of all.
 So you just go to town.
 Hey, would they paint our board?
 Is this a new color?
 Yeah.
 What color is it?
 It's black.
 You know what?
 It's a blackboard.
 No, no, no, no.
 Square chalk.
 I never saw such a thing.
 All right.
 First of all, let me talk about what multiprocessing is.
 The idea is you have a program running.
 Let's call this a program, all right?
 And you have your processor, your computer.
 It's chewing up the data, chewing up the data.
 Multiprocessing can be two things.
 First of all, you could have a second program running and a second processor chewing up the
 data and then they both spit out the output to your screen.
 So two processors working at once.
 Or you could have one program that slices itself up into multiple processes or threads
 and one processor takes one.
 The other processor takes the other.
 Still has one output coming out to your screen.
 In theory, it's speed up your computer by twice, right?
 Well, his friends are right.
 The K6 does not do what's called.
 This is called SMP, symmetric multiprocessing.
 K6 does not do it.
 Intel chips can do it.
 But there's a caveat here.
 First of all, you do have to be running a multiprocessor operating system,
 which is Windows NT or Unix or Linux or OS2.
 It has to be an operating system that knows about these slices.
 And it has to be a program that knows about the slices.
 In other words, you can't just be running Microsoft Word and Windows NT
 and expect to get any benefit at all from having two processors or more.
 You can, by the way, go up to eight processors on many systems, sometimes even more.
 You need an operating system and a program that knows.
 Now Photoshop and some high-end CAD programs do understand multiprocessing.
 Anything else?
 Well, quite a few.
 But you've got to check with the vendor of your software.
 Make sure that it will do multiprocessing.
 What do you want to do on this home machine?
 That's exactly right.
 You're not going to quake.
 You're not going to run any faster with a multiprocessor system.
 In fact, most of the time, these are used on servers,
 which are the big computers that handle multiple transactions at once,
 and they're basically being used for things like your ATM machine,
 where you've got thousands of people all at once requesting cash.
 Then a multiprocessor makes sense because there's a lot of stuff happening at once
 and needs to process in real time.
 So unless you're trying to run an ATM machine at your house--
 I think most people are trying what they think is,
 "Oh, two processors are better than one.
 I double my speed, ain't going to happen."
 He's trying to impress the locals.
 He's trying to impress those local yolks.
 I'll say you just can't do it without a genuine--
 Right.
 I'll just get this vision.
 I'll get this vision.
 Exactly.
 I'll get this vision of them sitting around the cracker barrel,
 there in the general store, say, "No, Joe, you can't do it with a K6."
 No, K6 doesn't work that way.
 You have to have the genuine entail.
 Thank you, Allie.
 All right, thank you.
 Be careful next time with that latte, all right?
 Oh, sure.
 I can't wait to see who we get tomorrow.
 I'll keep you posted.
 All right.
 Let me know when you get Judy Garland in the cap, Gina.
 It's gonna happen.
 Silla, come out, y'all.
 You haven't had troubles with your peripherals?
 Well, it could actually be a problem with your operating system.
 We're going to show you why when the screen savers continue.
 ♪♪
 The screen savers are sponsored by CDW, the number one direct seller
 of compact IBM, Toshiba, and Microsoft.
 Next time, give them a call.
 CDTV presents Ask Tilda.
 Mark from Denver writes, "I was installing some new software
 and a screen came on that said hit any key to continue.
 Where is the any key anyway?"
 Mark, observe our example.
 Relax.
 Close your eyes and drop your head onto the keyboard.
 Oh, are you okay?
 Email Tilda at zdtv.com.
 Where is it?
 Hmm?
 I'm waiting.
 Need it.
 Need it.
 ♪♪
 I'm not bad.
 Still waiting for that computer system you needed yesterday?
 No.
 Should have called CDW.
 Your personal account manager can even ship at the same date.
 Hey, Dave.
 We'll configure today and you'll have it tomorrow.
 I love you.
 I love you, too, Dave.
 CDW, the number one direct seller of compact IBM, Toshiba, and Microsoft.
 Next time, give us a call.
 70, 65, 56.
 I got a lot to say about hacking.
 Hackers have a certain kind of drive.
 They want to know you're cold.
 They want to get up inside your brain.
 They want to get behind you.
 They kind of like these creepy, tragloditic creatures hanging on your shoulder
 trying to peer into your personal business.
 I won't do it anymore.
 I'm going to give up on hacking.
 It's all clean living for the surf guru.
 No more misbehavior online.
 In our world, the speed and tempo of modern living are increasing at a never accelerating rate.
 The tool which has made this possible is the high-speed digital computer.
 The major task is to extend and augment human judgment, human imagination, and human intuition.
 That's where we come in.
 CDTV, amaze yourself.
 People all around the world are demanding their rights.
 CDTV, me.
 CDTV, the first 24-hour channel for computing and gaming.
 It's just an incredible phenomenon to me to see that so many people on the internet are interested in it.
 Live.
 CDTV, me.
 This is like soccer to me.
 Uncensored.
 Anything to make my floppy disks spill.
 CDTV, amaze yourself.
 CDTV, amaze yourself.
 He cuts through the techno-bounds.
 Spam, spam, spam.
 He gets to the heart of the problem.
 Do you have a 56K modem now?
 He even takes a call from Mom.
 Can you hear me?
 I can hear you.
 Fine, Mom.
 He's Leo LaPour, ready to solve your computer problems.
 Live.
 Call for help.
 Weeknights, 7-6-Central on CDTV.
 Hey, if you missed it on the air, try going online to the screensabers homepage.
 Insightful information.
 Use the links interaction on all this at its caffeine free.
 Log on.
 Check us out 24/7.
 Wait a minute.
 It says they have an image of Mark and Dreyus in a latte.
 I think there's a little confusion here.
 Mark and Dreyus.
 No!
 Anyway, I want to continue with call for help.
 I just want to say...
 What's the name of the show, Leo?
 Go Cowboys.
 What's the name of the show, Leo?
 Go Cowboys.
 Go Cowboys.
 Go Cowboys.
 Rah, Rah, Rah.
 Don't mess with Texas, okay?
 In chat room, they're talking about our conversation of the day, which is...
 Our corporate executives paid too much.
 And actually, they're more interested in the click of death.
 It looks like than the corporate executives.
 Apparently.
 It's Bill Gates paid too much.
 He only makes $600,000.
 That's not a whole lot.
 Actually, you know, somebody pointed out Jack Welch, CEO of NBC, makes $6 million.
 Well, how much does Tom Brokaw make?
 Can you take that head off, please?
 I think it's rather dead shit.
 Take off the dang hat.
 I like that little lady.
 That's here is a 20 gallon hat.
 Give me that.
 So, where were we?
 Philip and Tampa.
 Let's get on with the show.
 Hey, Philip.
 Philip?
 Hi.
 Hi.
 Hi.
 Hi.
 Look, I have a question on Windows 95.
 I purchased a device that has USB and I need a later version of Windows than what I had.
 I'm using a 4.00.950A and USB version, one with, I guess, an OSR.
 And I don't know what that...
 I wonder if you can help me out what that means.
 Yeah, you can't do it without OSR 2 or OSR, what does it be?
 OSR B 2.1.
 And you can't upgrade from A to B.
 Microsoft doesn't offer that as an upgrade.
 And the main reason was they were afraid that people would use the new file system, FAT32,
 which is available in OSR 2.
 And they would get in trouble because older disk utilities would damage the disk if you used FAT32.
 So, Microsoft did what's called a slipstream upgrade.
 Slipstream upgrade.
 They put OSR 2 on new computers, but they didn't offer it to existing users.
 So, if you bought a USB device, you are SOL, my friend, until Windows 98 comes out.
 Now, the good news is you can buy Windows 98, upgrade, and your USB device work.
 In fact, truth is, it didn't work very well with OSR 2.1 anyway, OSR B 2.1 anyway.
 You really wanted to go to Windows 98 if you're going to use a USB device.
 So, you know what? You're one of those people who should spend the 88 bucks.
 That's the approximate street price for Windows 98 and get Windows 98.
 Is that okay with you? Can you live with that?
 I think so.
 Yeah, there are sneaky ways to buy OSR 2.
 For instance, here's a weird one.
 You can buy a new computer, but here's a weird one.
 There's a company called Connectix makes something called Virtual PC,
 which is an emulator, PC emulator for the Mac, which comes with Windows in the package,
 about 99 bucks, and the Windows it comes with is OSR 2.
 So, if you really had to, you could go out and buy it.
 But my point to you is that USB devices don't work very well,
 even with this USB support built in a 95.
 You really want to go to 98.
 Okay, thank you very much.
 You know, all right, folks, just ahead.
 The click of death.
 Have you heard of it? Well, it's a really real problem.
 Appearing with these zip and jazz discs, we're going to have a full explanation
 with the leading authority on the topic, right?
 Right after this.
 Just imagine being linked to a source of information,
 to a global internet adventure.
 Just imagine clarity in a world of chaos.
 Now, there's a new television network.
 ZDTV, your home for entertainment.
 Explain the power of computers and the internet.
 Creating a world of possibilities.
 ZDTV, amaze yourself.
 Keep, Larry.
 Oh, hey, everybody.
 Till the here, try this.
 One, stretch those hands.
 Two, tune in to ZDTV and three, log on to zDTV.com.
 You know, ZDTV is a total computer workout.
 News, products, gaming.
 It's like having your own personal computer trainer on air and online.
 Till the, a real character on ZDTV.
 One more set, you can hit the shower.
 Welcome back to the screen savers.
 Leo Laport here.
 Kate Patello is in the chat room.
 We are going to talk about something very, very interesting.
 And I think you'll want to watch this closely.
 There is a problem.
 And it's acknowledged with the iomega zip and jazz drives
 referred to as click death or the click of death.
 And here's what happens.
 An audible click develops in drives, which can be fatal to the disc
 and sometimes possibly to the drive.
 We're going to find out a little bit more about that here to explain
 what the click of death is.
 A guy who's done a lot of research on the subject.
 A man I've read and known about for years, Steve Gibson.
 Hardware wizard disc guru.
 Good to have you here.
 Thanks.
 You wrote spin right years ago.
 How long did you write spin right?
 It had its 10th birthday at the end of March.
 And it's back.
 Version 5.0.
 Because I remember you retired.
 Kinda.
 Well, I left.
 I did the column for eight years.
 In Infoworld, the tech talk column.
 Every week for eight years.
 I read it religiously.
 That's enough.
 That's all I read.
 That's right.
 And you know, John left and the magazine changed.
 And also the industry began accelerating to a point where I
 wasn't able to get anything else done except research for the
 column.
 And you know, my main focus is development.
 That's what I love.
 I should hear on that last column.
 Well, he's back.
 And let's talk a little bit about the click of death.
 I would love to talk to you another time more about all the history.
 Because I'm an oldster.
 But let's talk about click of death.
 First of all, how did you get involved in click death?
 What happened is that with version 5 of Spinrite, which
 supports the FAT32 you were talking to the prior caller about,
 you know, in SR2, it also supports SCSI drives for the first
 time.
 And zip and jazz drives, or if not SCSI, they're SCSI-like.
 The point is that Spinrite 5 runs on any drive that exists under
 DOS and Windows.
 So you had to investigate these drives.
 What happened was we got a couple people wrote to us, a couple
 of customers called and said, hey, Spinrite 5 fixes click of death.
 I'd never heard of click of death.
 So I did some research and I found out that there's like, you
 know, thousands of people that are having problems with their zip
 drives.
 So although Spinrite--
 Now, by the way, we should say 10 million zip drives in use.
 15, I think.
 15 million now.
 So 1,000 people or thousands of people is not a bad number.
 As a percentage, I think it's not.
 You know, I mean, Iomega has said maybe 100,000 would be effective
 by this problem.
 Even that's a small number.
 Yeah.
 When you consider 15 million.
 So what is click death?
 The click sound itself is no mystery.
 That's the sound made when the disk is-- or when the drive is
 unable to find the sector or access a sector that is looking
 for in the disk.
 We've heard this on hard drives ago.
 Back in the old days, the old timer that you are, you remember
 that--
 Yes.
 It's trying to read a sector again.
 It's doing a retry and it sounds like it's struggling.
 It's like groaning, exactly.
 In this case, you get a clunka, clunka, clunka, which is nothing
 more than the heads being retracted out of the cartridge and
 then put back in to see if, like, doing it again, loading them
 again will help the problem.
 So the click itself is not a bad thing.
 It's not like the drive, head, hitting the media or something
 like that.
 No.
 It's just-- it's a normal thing.
 It's trying to reread it.
 It's just like the sound that you hear when you first put the
 cartridge in and the heads load.
 But when I hear this sound, should I be worried?
 Well, if you hear the sound ever, once the cartridge is in and
 when you're, like, trying to access your data, then you need
 to be worried.
 Okay.
 Now, this is, I should reiterate, a problem that occurs on iomega's
 zip and jazz discs.
 Right.
 That's the one megabyte is the jazz and the zip is the one
 hundred megabyte.
 Does it happen to the new two megabyte jazz discs as well?
 No experience without it.
 I have heard other people talking about, you know,
 side-quest drive.
 So it may happen to other removables.
 Sure.
 All right.
 Yeah, and there's no reason that it's only specific to iomega because
 the, again, the click sound is just what any removable media
 cartridge would have.
 All right.
 So what's happening if I understand this?
 This is, by the way, a zip disc.
 And, boy, I tell you, I live on these things.
 I eat them for lunch.
 And I treat them pretty badly.
 I have to confess, and you were talking before the show, that
 one of the problems is people treat them like floppy disks,
 you know?
 Well, and, you know, the classic zip drive itself, you know, is
 that blue box that you take?
 You're banging around.
 And you tend to take it around with you.
 You know, people treat laptop computers a little too casually.
 And I think they might be treating their drives a little too
 cat.
 So what's happening here is four of the redundant sectors.
 Is that right?
 On the disk.
 Tracks.
 There are four sort of secret hidden tracks called Z tracks,
 Z as in zip, which is where the drive stores its internal
 housekeeping data.
 Okay.
 It's not your data.
 It's the drive zone data.
 And you have no access to it from the outside.
 Right.
 Those get damaged.
 It basically turns this into a coaster.
 Outdoor stop.
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 It's a high tech coaster.
 Now, one of the things we've heard with click death, and I
 want you to debunk this one, is that when a cartridge dies,
 it can then contaminate other non-damaged drives.
 Is that true or false?
 In other words, I've had click death.
 I pulled this out.
 This disk is damaged.
 Very likely that disk has some formatting damage on it now.
 Is my drive damaged in my zip disk drive damage?
 Yeah.
 That drive is damaged.
 That drive is damaged.
 Well, if I put this in another drive, my friend's drive,
 to see if this disk is okay.
 Am I going to damage his drive?
 Only in a very rare circumstance.
 Because that was one of the things I think that really scared
 people.
 Was this contagion idea?
 This typhoid mary of zip disks.
 What happens is a bad zip disk will damage the formatting on
 that cartridge.
 And so, and you're hearing it click, and click, click,
 and you're thinking, "Oh, there's a problem."
 Then you take this disk, which itself has now been damaged
 by the bad drive.
 Right.
 Stick it into a good drive.
 Right.
 And it clicks.
 So, the presumption is, now that drive is bad.
 It's not the drive.
 But it's only clicking because it can't read this disk.
 Exactly.
 It's a normal process.
 Exactly.
 So, what happens to these drives that they start clicking?
 What's going on?
 Why would it damage this disk?
 By the way, I haven't had this happen.
 I don't know.
 Anybody this has happened to.
 I know thousands of people.
 They're all -- well, that's because they're all coming to --
 Steve, give us a minute.
 My website is spinwright.com, and you have a whole section.
 If people want to know more about this, and we point to it.
 And a freeware utility on the way that'll allow you to detect
 whether your drive might cause click of death.
 All right.
 So, the drive is damaged.
 It's damaged the disk.
 This is useless.
 Should I then take the drive out of circulation?
 Will it damage more disks?
 Yes.
 Okay.
 So, it's now time to retire the drive.
 Good news.
 They're only about 100 bucks.
 Is there any way to fix a click of death drive?
 The problem is you ask what causes it.
 Right.
 When I started doing the research, I wanted to find the reason
 and fix it.
 Maybe do something like zip right, you know, to fix zip problems.
 Turns out there isn't a cause.
 It's been linked to bad power supplies, bad connectors.
 The head's getting dirty, and there's no cleaning disk for zip drives.
 There's no such thing.
 Mechanical problems in the positioner.
 There's a whole array of problems that develop in these drives.
 That's why I backed off from trying to create a cure.
 Instead, I created something that would test whether your drive
 was going to have a problem.
 So, you've created a program called Trouble in Paradise.
 Right.
 Y-P dot X-E.
 I love the name.
 What does it do?
 Trouble in Paradise is a non-destructive test that you can put
 a disk in any drive.
 It will do, basically, it does reads and writes while watching
 the drive's behavior closely to detect whether the drive is
 having problems.
 The drive, see, it will mask problems a lot by relocating
 bad sectors around using these Z tracks.
 So, it's actually smart.
 It's doing the right thing.
 It's a beautifully engineered drive.
 When I got into this, I was very impressed with the engineering
 IOMEGA had done.
 It looks like, you know, a percentage of them that is not
 insignificant are having problems.
 All right.
 So, you're going to release this when?
 Middle of next week.
 Okay.
 And it will be a diagnostic program.
 Free.
 Free.
 Downloadable from SpendRight.com.
 Very small.
 All right.
 Gee, people still write an assembly.
 That's all I use.
 Only Steve Gibson.
 [music]
 Hello, and welcome to the screen savers.
 I'm Kate Patello.
 And I'm Leo LaPorte.
 Thank you so much for joining us coming up in today's show.
 Shields up.
 And protect yourself from the dreaded port sniffers.
 [music]
 Hello, and welcome to the screen savers.
 I'm Kate Patello.
 And I'm Leo LaPorte.
 Thank you so much for joining us coming up in today's show.
 Shields up.
 And protect yourself from the dreaded port sniffers.
 Never mind.
 Also, editor-in-chief, Jake Kirchner joins us with PC Magazine's top rated
 products for 1999.
 Very cool segment.
 Be sure to check that out.
 Really neat stuff.
 Then later, the hottest digital cameras, whether you are a novice,
 whether you are a novice or a pro gym ladder back has a digital
 camera for you on today's fresh gear.
 All right.
 Today's the chat room.
 Now, let me just give you this specific author and the title of
 the book, a new book written.
 The 75 Greatest Management Decisions Ever Made and 21 of the
 Worst by Stuart Craner.
 Names as the number one, what do you think Leo?
 Now, we should say, by the way, by the way, this guy's not a computer
 expert.
 No, he's not.
 And it's a business book.
 Yes.
 Not a computer book.
 That is correct.
 He says the number one business mistake, I'd say New Coke.
 New Coke.
 New Coke.
 Incorrect.
 Edsel.
 Good guess, but not good.
 No.
 Technology related.
 Oh, it's technology related.
 Management decision.
 HP's decision.
 When Stephen Wozniak came to them saying, would you like to make a
 computer called an apple to say, they said, no, you know what?
 There's no market for personal computing.
 How about that?
 These are all really good options.
 That's a pretty good one.
 These are good.
 Michael Patterson selling DOS for $30,000.
 Yeah.
 Kicking himself.
 Nope.
 That wasn't his fault because Bill kind of misrepresented the whole.
 Of course, but that's beside the point.
 So the worst move ever?
 Ever.
 Was apple killing off the clones?
 Oh, interesting.
 The licensing of its operating system, according to this author, was
 the worst management decision ever.
 We're asking you today.
 That's a pretty bad decision.
 Pretty bad.
 Wait, me mad.
 Well, we're asking you, did apple make the worst management
 decision ever?
 Yeah, but part of that, you know, I mean, they felt that their
 market share was being diluted.
 Well, that's true.
 The licensing of Microsoft OS didn't necessarily make everything
 take over.
 Just so that.
 Since they did that, obviously they've had profitable quarters
 every quarter since then.
 Right.
 So it's hard.
 I mean, you have to say that's a worst business decision ever.
 Since it hasn't, in fact, hurt them.
 Mm-hmm.
 But I guess what you could say is, well, what was the opportunity
 cost?
 Because if they had continued licensing, maybe instead of
 Windows, Macintosh.
 No.
 What a watered down.
 The guy's wrong.
 The points earlier were a problem.
 Here's where you could really say the bad decision.
 And Steve Jobs has told me this, and believes this fervently,
 that Apple did make a very horrible business decision around
 1989 or 1990 when Jobs was gone.
 It was John Scully at the time when they said, should we open our
 license?
 No, let's not.
 Let's keep it proprietary.
 Yes.
 That might be where they went wrong.
 I'd buy that as being one of the worst mistakes.
 The article that I read that was linked off of Good Morning
 Silicon Valley, check that out, folks.
 GMSV.com.
 Great site.
 Great site.
 The technology.
 Yes.
 They specifically said that what agreed with you, that that
 was actually a much worse decision than killing.
 Clearly that hurt Apple badly.
 They could be Microsoft right now.
 Have they allowed people to buy the operating system and put it
 on other hardware?
 So we don't think that was the worst management decision ever.
 But we want to know, of course, what you think, take our
 web poll at the screensavers.com.
 While you're there today, folks, click, talk back and tell us
 what you think the worst management decision ever.
 Technology-wise.
 I suppose technology-wise.
 Well, you can do it in general, I guess.
 It's New Coke.
 I'm with you, man.
 Yeah.
 I'm really interested in tech.
 I'm going to have to think about it.
 Before the show's over, I will come up with, I think, what I
 think is the worst computer-related decision.
 There were some bad ones.
 Ten says the second Jan was also a very bad management
 decision.
 The second Jan in the Brady Bunch?
 Yeah.
 I was thinking there were a couple, actually, like that, that
 were pretty bad.
 Oh, getting rid of pineapple lifesavers.
 Did you see that?
 They were saying pineapple lifesavers were not
 why to take a line.
 They didn't get rid of them.
 They're voting.
 They're voting.
 They won't get rid of them.
 No.
 For watermelon?
 No.
 Give us a call.
 888-989-7879.
 I just thought of one.
 Probably the worst decision in the computer industry ever.
 You put a company out of business.
 Is that count?
 Yes.
 I'll tell you in a second.
 Chat at zedenet.chat.zedenet.com.
 That's our chat room.
 And we are, by the way, in the screensaver's room.
 That's where the party is going down.
 That's a party?
 As the young people say.
 Is that what we say?
 Yeah.
 Where the party is going down.
 Actually, the other party going down is indeed netcams
 and wicks.
 That's where it's actually happening as the kids
 would say.
 We've got a couple of parties going to actually three.
 Hey.
 Jennifer.
 Scott.
 Robyn.
 Robyn.
 And Shannon.
 Robyn Scott and Shannon.
 What are they doing?
 See no either.
 Heal no evil.
 Speak no evil.
 They said the worst management decision ever was
 always cutting to the net cam booth to ask the top top
 question at the top of the show.
 Yes.
 They would agree with that.
 So, of course, call them up.
 That's what we're going to keep doing it forever.
 Give them another bit to do and earn yourself the fabulous
 coveted screensaver's magnet as seen on our fridge.
 Aww.
 Curious George.
 How cute.
 Let's get to our --
 Let's get one of these puppies away.
 You want to?
 First caller of the day on the ZD-TV 3.com net.
 Came networked from Atlanta, Georgia.
 It's Pete.
 Hello, Pete.
 Hey, how are you guys doing?
 Pete, we're pretty good.
 I'm tossing you a magnet.
 Ready?
 Yeah.
 One.
 Two.
 Oh, my gosh.
 All right.
 Nice casting.
 I think you flipped his eye there.
 Did I?
 I got it.
 Oh, I put his eye out.
 Great.
 So, what can we do for you, Pete?
 Well, it's coming towards Christmas.
 I asked my grandfather for a present from Amazon.com.
 All right.
 Oh, good call.
 It was the Philips Nino 3.19.
 Very nice grandfather.
 Very nice grandfather.
 Very nice grandfather.
 But it doesn't work?
 They canceled the orders.
 The only problem.
 Oh.
 And I'm running out of time.
 So, I have a $200 budget.
 And I'm looking for the best wired toy.
 What are you looking for?
 I mean, what kind of thing do you want?
 I'm just looking for some fun toy under $200.
 It's going to get me off for the rest of the year.
 Are you in school?
 Yeah.
 What grade?
 I'm a freshman.
 Freshman in high school.
 Yeah.
 All right.
 So, he had started with a Nino.
 Nino is pretty cool.
 So, how much is a handspring?
 I don't think you could set it at Amazon.com.
 Oh.
 Fortunately.
 So, it's a gift certificate.
 Do you have to use it at Amazon?
 Or can you go anywhere?
 No, I don't.
 We made that with cancels for the Nino.
 Oh, I see.
 Better than I like the Nino, I like the Palm Spring.
 And there are three models, 149, 179 and 249.
 I get the 179 model.
 That comes with a docking cradle.
 Without that, it's not good.
 That's a good choice.
 That's a good choice.
 And add them later.
 That's a good choice.
 And that's the gift that keep on giving.
 Because Grandpa can keep giving you stuff.
 Yep.
 And it's better than the Nino.
 I would agree with you.
 You were a Nino user.
 I played with the Nino.
 And I liked it a lot.
 But once I played with this handspring with the visor,
 forget it.
 That's if you want to stay with the PDA.
 You know what I really like?
 How much is a Game Boy?
 Game Boy would be great.
 Do you have a Game Boy?
 Yeah, I feel Game Boy.
 It's not much of a rush.
 No, PlayStation, Dreamcast.
 Yeah, we have all that stuff.
 Oh, okay.
 Hey, you know, that Intel microscope is 100 bucks.
 That's kind of cool.
 You might be a little old for that.
 But that's 100 X microscope that hooks up to your net cam.
 Or your computer.
 Yeah, I actually use a -- I'm using a video camera right now.
 I have a whole studio right here.
 Very nice.
 Oh, really?
 Yeah.
 I'll tell you what.
 Let's get our chat room involved.
 Let's get our viewers involved.
 Get our email.
 Your budget.
 $200.
 You can tell what kind of cool guy he is.
 Let's take us some stuff.
 How about mp3s?
 You listen to mp3s?
 No, I have tons of mp3s.
 Yeah.
 You have an mp3 player?
 Yeah.
 Actually, I do have the Rio 300s.
 Oh.
 What to give the guy who has everything?
 Yeah, I have everything.
 Okay.
 What's your video card?
 I'm using an API only under 128 PCI 16 megabytes.
 You might want to look at it.
 Of you.
 Do you play games?
 Well, not many.
 All right.
 Don't upgrade your video card.
 Man, you're tough.
 You're tough to shop for.
 Yeah.
 No wonder grandpa gave up.
 I'd say give you a gift certificate and just let you go.
 Not only did the grandpa give up, we went to some other caller.
 All right.
 We're going to get the entire group involved by the end of the show.
 I promise you, we will have five.
 I count them five great technology solutions for under $200.
 All right.
 We're going to do it.
 Is grandpa watching?
 No, he's not.
 What's his name?
 He's named Harry.
 Harry.
 Why don't you tape this and you can give it to grandpa Harry.
 All right.
 All right.
 And then don't tell him.
 All right.
 You know what to get, right?
 Okay.
 That way it'll be a surprise.
 All right.
 Thanks, Pete.
 All right.
 Thank you, Pete.
 Nice hat, by the way.
 Oh, thank you.
 Can I tell you?
 These are the trivia in your bookshelf at 945.
 All right.
 What was the question you won with?
 I really don't remember.
 I win those things all the time.
 It was trivial.
 I win those things all the time.
 That's a screen saver's hat.
 It's a screen saver's hat.
 Yeah.
 I'm actually waiting for the t-shirt.
 If you guys could sign that, I won the super geek challenge.
 All right.
 All right.
 If it's not already on its way to you, we'll find us some shiny markers of some sort that'll
 write on a black shirt.
 And we'll send it to you.
 All right.
 Okay, Pete.
 That's worth 200 bucks right there.
 There you go.
 Not.
 Thank you, Pete.
 Take care.
 Thanks, Pete.
 You may be the first person who's ever actually called us with a screen saver's hat on his
 hat.
 That's great.
 I'd like to see more of that.
 Yeah.
 Call us up with your screen saver's hat and it's more likely that you'll get on.
 You're all seen.
 First, I got to win one.
 Yeah.
 We'll tell you how to win one later on.
 After the break, protect your ports and cook shields up.
 Why not what I'm talking about for the screen savers?
 What is your time now?
 What is your time now?
 And it's time now for the weekly windows tip.
 The happy news tip.
 Protect your ports.
 Put your shields up with many, many thanks to our dear friend Steve Gibson of grc.com.
 Check your own security by running shields up.
 Now, this is a program he wrote.
 This is a terrific program that he wrote.
 Now, if you go to grc.com, shields up will show you how much information its secure engine
 can find about you and your machine.
 So if you go here and I have this set up, folks, so that it won't show our IP address.
 But right above this, please stand by.
 You'll see it'll have my IP address.
 And it'll say I'm trying to connect to your computer.
 Now, I will tell you immediately it knew our computer name right away.
 And when I did this at home, by the way, the same thing happened.
 It knew my computer name.
 It knew what I put myself in as my workgroup.
 All kinds of stuff.
 All going out over the internet.
 So this engine will run and then test your security.
 Now, first of all, it'll say, look, preliminary internet connection established.
 I was already able to connect to your machine.
 And again, this is secure.
 They don't keep any of this information.
 They don't do anything with it.
 They're just telling you what it is they're capable of doing.
 And then you can scroll down a little further.
 It'll tell you now this says unable to connect with net bios to your computer.
 On my machine, it said, plus, I can connect with net bios to your computer.
 So it'll go through and tell you what all of your security holes are.
 Here we have our private names showing up, going out over the internet.
 All this stuff.
 So as you can see, let me scroll past that.
 There we go.
 A lot of things in here that can go wrong.
 You can also go in and probe your ports.
 When you do that, it gives you this.
 It will show you all of the ports that are closed and any that come up as open.
 Now, I experimented and I tried this over our firewall machine on the corporate network
 back at the office.
 All of my ports came up in stealth mode, which is great.
 But they say, you know, closed is the next best thing to a stealth port.
 It just says, I'm closed.
 Now, the repairs are actually pretty simple.
 And this is one of the best parts that I like about this.
 He takes you through all the way, the adapter, the protocol, and the service binding
 where a lot of this lies at fault.
 You do not need the client for Microsoft networks or file and printer sharing
 or the Microsoft family log on to get on the Internet.
 You need those to share files with other Microsoft Windows machines.
 But you don't actually need them to get on the Internet, so you should not have
 the client for Microsoft networks, for instance, bound to TCP/IP.
 So, he'll take you through all of these steps and explain all of the different layers
 and where they should be binding and show you this is the default setup, folks.
 If you look here, everything is bound to everything else by default.
 That is not necessary.
 So, he can take you through the whole process, explain what you have,
 and tell you, ultimately, you want to have TCP/IP, for instance,
 bound to your dial-up adapter or your cable modem or your DSL interface to your NIC,
 and take you down from there that you can use, actually, net buoy is a lot safer
 for any kind of internal sharing, anything like that you want to use.
 You bind the client for Microsoft networks, the family login, those bind to net buoy,
 and TCP/IP binds directly to your adapters.
 Now, he'll actually take you through this step-by-step.
 If you go here, click on your operating system, 9598 or NT,
 and he will walk you through the whole thing depending on how you should have your protocols mapped,
 what instructions you should follow, and what you should ignore.
 So, please do run this.
 He will be so glad you did, found a hole in my own security, went back, ran the test again,
 came up clean, couldn't find anything on my machine at home.
 Next best thing to having a firewall.
 Check out our website, thescreensavers.com.
 For step-by-step instructions, we have a basic article about the tip,
 but I really recommend that you come to Steve's site, grc.com,
 and read all of this really helpful stuff, including all of the explainers,
 his explain this to me section about this Windows tip, check it out.
 Thank you for doing that, Steve, that's really great.
 Yes, thank you, Steve.
 I was just going to look up spin-right because I was thinking,
 "Oh, man, I need spin-right for a moment," and I found this just by accident
 and ran it and was like, "Oh, my God, I'm insecure."
 Yeah, it's good to know.
 It's good to know. Good explanations too in there.
 Yeah, combat those feelings of insecurity.
 Thank you, Steve.
 Hello, I'm Linna Sposto in the ZD&N Newsroom.
 All the news about potential bugs in Windows 2000
 didn't slow down sales.
 Today, Microsoft said more than 500,000 copies of the OS have been sold
 since its launch in mid-February, better than the company had expected.
 Microsoft was an actively traded advance on the NASDAQ
 and helped push the composite into record territory.
 The Japanese release of Sony's PlayStation 2 had customers camping out
 for a chance to get their hands on it, hundreds of hopeful video game fans
 set up tent sites outside Tokyo stores.
 Sony plans to sell at least one million game consoles
 within the first two days of the Japan launch.
 Well, will cell phones become the next handheld craze?
 No, Kia's chief hope so.
 He said web-connected mobile phones could outnumber PCs
 linked to the net within three years.
 More news in an hour.
 I hope these people can help me with my computer.
 Oh!
 No!
 No!
 Hey, technician, we'll be with you in four hours.
 You can upgrade for just $5,000.
 What?!
 The Universal City of The big world should be set to ID6.
 I need to explain anything to help.
 Leo Laporta, call for help.
 May I help you?
 Oh, hi, welcome.
 Welcome to call for help.
 Leo Laporta here.
 This is it!
 Friday!
 And we've got a great show for you.
 This is the show where we talk about high-tech.
 We answer your questions.
 We make it all simple.
 And you watch this show, you might feel like you're getting smarter,
 but I want to tell you, I want to let you in on a little secret.
 You are already smart enough.
 You can get all this stuff.
 This personal confuser may seem frustrating, bizarre, and confusing to you.
 You have every tool in your power possession right now to understand it all.
 Just nobody bothers to do it in English.
 They mostly do it in Español.
 But I don't speak Español, so I'm going to do it in English, okay?
 Here's how we do the show.
 It's Live Monday through Friday from 7 to 8 p.m. Eastern time.
 Live?
 Why?
 Well, mostly, because I want you to be able to call with your questions.
 And that number is 888-989-7879.
 Told free from anywhere in North America.
 You can also email me, and you can do that anytime.
 If you have a brainstorm during the weekend and you want to email me,
 just send it along to callforhelp@zdtv.com.
 And we check the mail throughout the show, so as the mail's coming in,
 if you have something to say about something we just talked about,
 a lot of times it's a great way for me to get more information,
 to get corrections out on the air.
 And it's really valuable to me, so please don't hesitate to use that email.
 I love that.
 And of course, the fun way to play is the chat room.
 This is recreational, all right?
 If you want to join us at the chat room, go to the website zdtv.com/callforhelp
 and click on Interact, and we'll see you in there.
 I want to spend some time in the chat room today.
 I just feel -- I don't know why. I feel like spring is in the air.
 Is spring in the air? Is that what it is?
 It is just -- it just feels -- yeah.
 Do you feel that way, Gabe? You're feeling good, aren't you?
 I hope everybody, wherever you are, all over the world watching this show,
 you're feeling good today because we're going to have a lot of fun.
 Now, today, I want to ask you, wouldn't it be great if there were a program
 that would tell you about your internet insecurities,
 about problems going on on your computer, about people and ways people
 could get into your system? There is such a thing.
 And the guy who developed it, a program we've talked about before
 called Shields Up, is here.
 Steve Gibson, he's going to show us Shields Up.
 That's coming up in just a little bit.
 We're also going to talk about a way to talk with friends, family
 and relations on the internet, a way to chat instantly with folks, okay?
 Martin Sargent is going to give us one of his patented walkthroughs.
 That's all coming up.
 Right now, let's get to our very first call of the day, ladies and gentlemen.
 And that is Tommy from Livingston, Alabama.
 Hello, Tommy.
 Hi.
 How are you?
 Love to show, Leo.
 Thank you, sir.
 I appreciate it.
 I'm glad you watch.
 What can I do for you?
 Well, I was wondering about NetSonic.
 NetSonic, all right.
 We can talk about that.
 But first, let me ask you, is it spring in Livingston, Alabama?
 Right now, it is.
 All right.
 So, are you going to get in the mood with us here, the springy mood?
 Oh, yes.
 And NetSonic is one of the whole category of programs that are designed to speed up your
 internet, right?
 Am I right?
 Yes.
 Yeah.
 Is it netsonic.com?
 I believe so.
 Let me just try that and see if it is.
 Yes.
 Oh, it is.
 It's, in fact, according to NetSonic, the most popular internet accelerator software in
 the world.
 Wow, it must be good, mustn't it?
 How much?
 Have you tried it?
 Not yet.
 All right.
 Let me talk a little bit about what NetSonic and all these programs do.
 There are a couple of different ways of accelerating internet access.
 One is by optimizing your connection.
 Okay.
 Programs that we've shown before like iSpeed.
 Those work.
 Those work.
 Because, as it turns out, Windows 95 was shipped with the wrong settings.
 Whoops.
 It was shipped for settings for a local area network, not a modem.
 So, iSpeed works on Windows 95.
 And it can even give you some improvement on Windows 98 if you're on a modem.
 That's not what this does.
 This is different from that.
 This is caching software.
 And the design is, the idea is to speed up your browsing by keeping data on your hard drive.
 Now, you know your browser already has some caching capability, right?
 Yeah.
 This is supposedly improves it.
 And i'll have to say, i haven't used this one, but everyone i've used so far, i am unimpressed.
 And, in fact, often it causes reliability problems.
 Okay, this is a couple of things that i don't like, that i really don't recommend.
 This does something called pre-fetching pages.
 And what that means is, while you're sitting, as i have been noticed, a lot of people
 The way you browse is you sit, you read a page, then you click on a link that was on the page, right?
 So pre-fetching, the way pre-fetching would work is, if i had net sonic running right now,
 It would have already downloaded this page that i'm going to click on.
 And so it would pop up instantly because it's downloaded ahead of time.
 Now, that works great if your behavior is, i'm always reading the page, and then i click on most of the links.
 The drawback to it is, first of all, you download a whole lot more data than you're ever going to look at, right?
 So it's not a good net is in.
 I mean, it's using the internet to look at pages you're never going to look at.
 And unless you click at these links successfully, you're not going to really benefit from it.
 If i now go to another page, there's not going to be any caching having been done.
 So if you have a certain kind of viewing pattern that most people don't, in my opinion, it might benefit you.
 I don't think it's worth the added headache to put it on there.
 I think, in fact, it can actually cause reliability problems.
 It's free. There's no reason not to try it. Have you tried it yet?
 No, but the actual reason i wanted it is to play a lot of ashram's call online.
 It would not help that at all.
 So this is basically going to make web pages pop up faster. That's it.
 Eye speed is the kind of thing you should use for ashram's call.
 If you have Windows 98, it may not make that much difference.
 But neither of these programs cost anything. It's worth trying them.
 I personally am not convinced that this is a good idea.
 I certainly wouldn't go out and buy.
 There are other programs that you can buy like Webcelerator. I certainly wouldn't do that.
 So considering you're not going to get much benefit, I just leave it off.
 Alright? Thanks, Tommy. Eye speed is available.
 It's Eye and the word speed is available at the ZeniNet Software Library.
 That's at hotfiles.com. And I bet you that Sonic's also there.
 But you can also get it from their website, which is web3000.com or netsonic.com.
 We've seen these programs. They've been around for a long time.
 Maybe this one works better than the other ones.
 But I'll try this one over the weekend and see.
 But I've yet to see one that really makes any difference at all.
 And more often than not, they cause more problems.
 Coming up next, if internet security is your top concern,
 Steve Gibson could be your new best friend.
 He's the man behind Shields Up, a website that tests your computer for security problems.
 We're going to talk to Steve about security problems and what you can do
 and call for help continues.
 Stuart, can I see you in my office, please?
 That kid is sick. That hinge is very sick.
 Get in here. Sure thing, Mr. Pink.
 Stuart, I just opened my Ameritrade account.
 Let's light this candle. Let's go to Ameritrade.com.
 It's easier than falling in love.
 What do you feel like buying today, Mr. Pink?
 Kmart.
 So research it. All this stuff is provided for you free of charge.
 No cost.
 Yeah, that's synonymous with free.
 Looks like a good stock.
 Let's buy.
 Let's buy 100 chips.
 Alright, click it in there.
 How about 500?
 100, Stuart.
 I feel the excitement you're about to buy a stock.
 Okay.
 Oh!
 Fabulous.
 That cost me.
 Eight dollars, my man.
 Eight dollars.
 Eight dollars.
 You're riding the wave of the future, my man.
 I can listen to soda.
 I'm sorry, Mr. Pink.
 Have a party on Saturday night if you really want to go.
 I'm going to try and get there.
 Happy trading.
 Thank you.
 Rock on.
 Alright, Stuart.
 25th anniversary special.
 Open a cash account with $500 and get 25 internet equity trades
 commissioned free in the first month.
 Go to Ameritrade.com.
 Ameritrade.
 Believe in yourself.
 Join the thousands of enterprising RTS painting our logo
 at zdtv.com and you can be on TV.
 Take a look.
 You ought to be in pictures and honey, here's your chance.
 Enter ZVTV's second annual Cam Film Festival.
 Go to zdtv.com/camfest for all the details.
 Hi.
 It's the first show created entirely by you.
 Catch the sneak preview of You Made It.
 On Tuesday, March 15th at 10th, 9th Central, only on ZVTV.
 ♪♪
 Welcome back to Call For Help.
 I'm Leo LaPorque.
 Can someone pry into your computer while you're online?
 I'll tell you, ever since those denial of a service attacks,
 security concerns have become paramount.
 Of course, we're doing more and more of our personal business
 online, privacy issues become a big deal.
 But how do you know what's a real threat, what's just hyped?
 Joining us, Steve Gibson, the president and founder of
 Gibson Research Corporation, grc.com, with some great ways
 to protect yourself from computer spies.
 Hi, Steve.
 Good to see you.
 Great to be back.
 Now, we've got to tell everybody, Steve Gibson,
 I first became aware of you years ago with Spinrite,
 which was then and still is the best program ever made for
 checking and testing hard drugs.
 Still doing it?
 Yeah.
 This is interesting because you've kind of take a little bit
 of a turn here.
 Well, what's great about the grc site is you've always covered
 stuff that's of interest to everybody.
 Because you're such a great programmer, you can whip these
 things out.
 You did a CAH virus recovery program.
 That was great.
 I mean, there's lots of wonderful stuff in here.
 Click of death stuff.
 Click of death stuff.
 That's right.
 With the zip drives.
 Yeah.
 So, shields up as your latest.
 Tell me a little bit about shields.
 First of all, how did you get the idea for shields up?
 Well, I was talking to some friends about security and I
 realized that when you're connected to the internet,
 the internet is connected to you.
 And people don't understand that when you go to a website,
 I mean, you're actually, your computer is connected to that
 server.
 Yeah, you think you're getting information from them,
 but they could be getting information from you.
 That's what I've done is the idea is I want people to understand
 what the vulnerabilities were in their, you know, in the
 normal configuration of their system and to show them exactly
 what it is that's going on and what information is leaking out.
 So, I created a website that, like, builds a custom page when
 you go there, it, like, typically greets you with your name.
 It says, you know, highly old.
 Or greetings call for help.
 Right.
 How did you know my name?
 Well, you connected to my server.
 And I was able to, like, reverse probe your computer and show
 you what's leaking out of it.
 And then the rest of the site shows you what you can do to
 lock it down.
 This is stuff that any website can ask your computer, and in
 most cases, well, the computer will just give it.
 All right, now, we're not running any security software here.
 So, we're just wide open.
 But most people work hard.
 Most people, either a modem or DSL or cable.
 That's exposed.
 We always talk about DSL and cable.
 Like, they're really the ones at risk, but it's not.
 No, because you can load some software into your computer without
 knowing it, which just waits for you to connect by modem.
 You know, I mean, the huge population of AOL users are just
 as much at risk.
 Because if you get one of these bad programs in your system,
 it sits around waiting to phone home.
 Well, we're going to talk about that in just a little bit.
 Those are the things like Oreo and Godzilla and stuff.
 We'll talk about that in a little bit.
 Let's look a little bit at what ShieldsUp is telling me.
 And maybe you can interpret it for the lay person so they can
 understand a little bit about it.
 This is a great site, by the way, if you want to read about it
 and have security, you've got to read some material.
 Thank you.
 I don't want to panic people, though.
 I don't want them to go all freak out and worry that someone
 is like a vulnerability that never existed before is now there.
 This has always been going on.
 But with the internet increasing in popularity and more and more
 people getting connected, it just seems like this is something
 people have to think about.
 Is security is important?
 Right.
 Okay.
 And it's not like somebody's probably targeting you.
 I mean, this is not somebody's out to get you, right?
 I mean, maybe a business would be targeted, like with these
 denial of service attacks we had a couple weeks ago.
 The typical user, though, can be found by a scam.
 Because they're just one IP address, sort of like one post office
 box out on the internet.
 And so hackers do run sweeps across these...
 Looking for vulnerabilities.
 Looking for openings.
 And so the idea is to close these openings.
 Don't make yourself a target, in other words, right?
 Right.
 Understand that you have a little bit of responsibility and, you know,
 no one else is going to take care of you, except, you know,
 yourself.
 Well, we're on the site right now.
 This is grc.com.
 Already you know my internet address.
 Is that normally public?
 Everybody knows that?
 Yes.
 And people should not be too concerned about that.
 Normally it's in your email headers.
 If you post something to a news group, it's there.
 I mean, technically it's the address of your computer.
 But there really isn't a practical way of hiding it.
 It's part of being on the internet.
 You have to have it exposed in order for data to come back to you.
 What's this number here?
 That's known as your MAC address.
 That's the serial number of your LAN adapter.
 Your network card.
 Your network card.
 Now if I'm on a modem, I won't have one of those.
 In fact, it's all zero, so I don't even bother showing it to you.
 Okay.
 But the cool thing about, well, from the technology standpoint,
 it's globally unique.
 The first half of it is a manufactured number.
 The second half is the serial number of that manufacturer.
 So there's no two of them that are the same.
 Which means it uniquely identifies your machine.
 Well, now that's scary because any company that could get that
 information could, it's like the Pentium III ID.
 It's like a cookie on steroids.
 Because it can never go away.
 Well, and any website can access it.
 In fact, after I showed that this was here, tons of websites
 have come to me saying, hey, how can I get that?
 They're like, oh, well, we're not going to do anything wrong.
 I'm going to probe my ports.
 What is a port?
 Why are you probing it?
 What does it mean when you do?
 The way a computer hooks to the Internet is it's got an address,
 that IP address.
 That's like your phone number.
 Exactly.
 Think about it like maybe your address at home.
 So it's the address of the whole household.
 Yes.
 But then you've got people within the household.
 So ports are like the individuals within the computer.
 They're like the different ways of accessing.
 If this were a phone number, these would be extensions.
 Yeah, that's a good example.
 Okay.
 So these are all ways that I can interact with the Internet.
 This is email.
 This is, wait a minute.
 Now, these are all closed.
 But this one's open.
 What is that?
 Now, that's port 139.
 A lot of people email me saying, my port 139 is open.
 Steve says so.
 Unfortunately, I showed everybody.
 What does it mean, Steve?
 So I don't have to answer all those emails.
 It's because this is open that I was able to say,
 greetings call for help or greetings Leo or something.
 That's the port through which this personal information
 is leaking out onto the Internet.
 I don't have files sharing turned on.
 I don't have to.
 It's still open.
 It's still open.
 However, there is a way and my website goes on to explain
 and really in detail to show people just which buttons to push
 in order to close that down.
 And then you'll come back and I'll just say greetings
 because I have no idea who you are.
 Now, we have talked about, and I know you talk about your website,
 a personal firewall solution that's free called Zone Alarm.
 It is free.
 Should everybody be running a firewall of some kind?
 Is that how important is that?
 In the future, it'll just be part of the system.
 It is so important.
 I mean, it's like the wheels on the car.
 You know, computers have not been on the Internet long enough
 to mature.
 One of the ways they're still immature is they don't
 have a firewall.
 But Zone Alarm is free.
 So that should be an automatic thing.
 Get it.
 All right.
 It's at ZoneAlarm.com.
 ZoneLabs.com.
 Actually, they've bought ZoneAlarm.com too now.
 Cool.
 Oh, good.
 Makes it easy.
 Makes it easy for everybody.
 Now, let me go back.
 We're at a time.
 I just want to go back to Shield's Up, which is, by the way,
 I know you put another T1 in for your appearance.
 But every time I show this on TV, it goes down.
 We're going to be a little slow.
 But if I go back to Shield's Up now, it kind of worked.
 With Zone Alarm running and I do the same thing,
 it's going to be a different story.
 It's closed down.
 Yeah.
 What will happen?
 Because I don't know if we're going to actually--
 You can click there right now.
 That's blank.
 Yeah, go ahead and click right now.
 And it'll take you in.
 All right.
 We're trying to get through the server.
 I can't wait to go home now.
 How many people does it take to get this to happen?
 We saturate at 28,000.
 So all of a sudden, is that what happened?
 I have twice that now.
 56,000.
 Because of you, Leo.
 Next time I show this up, we're going to say please.
 Now, folks, don't try this at home.
 Until we're here.
 We can't get in.
 We can't get in.
 All right.
 Oh, it's slowly going to do it.
 What it's going to say is--
 Just greetings.
 It's going to say--
 It won't know anything about you.
 It doesn't know my name anymore.
 Right.
 It won't know about those ports.
 It won't know my internet address anymore.
 All of that stuff.
 Because I'm running the--
 You've got zone alarm running.
 Firewall running.
 And that's free.
 Now, there are other firewall programs out there.
 Yep.
 And they're good.
 They're good.
 But this one's free.
 It's free.
 And actually, this thing does something that, as I think--
 Well, first of all, it's unique.
 It does it better than any others.
 It blocks outbound communication.
 Conditionally, the firewall is something that the corporation had
 in some closet somewhere.
 Right.
 And that kept anything from coming in from the outside.
 The big problem for the individual is like a Trojan horse program.
 That's sitting on my computer broadcasting out.
 In fact, here it is.
 Yahoo Messenger is trying to broadcast out.
 It's trying to access the internet.
 And zone alarm clock.
 It caught it.
 And now, it turns out I have Yahoo Messenger running and I want it running.
 But if it were doing that stealthily without my knowledge,
 this would be a very valuable thing to know.
 Exactly.
 And the idea is, I think that there's actually a bigger problem
 with applications you unwittingly load into your computer
 who want to phone home than it is with the random hacker somewhere
 on the planet.
 Save that discussion for another time.
 I agree with you.
 Steve, you're the best.
 Keep up the great work.
 I am so glad we could get you on and bring your servers down again.
 Steve Gibson, grc.com.
 If you want to know more about what he's talking about,
 there's a link right on the front there about the aurea issue, right?
 A-U-R-E-A-T-E describes it.
 And of course, we have a whole bunch of stuff,
 including links to his site at our address, zdtv.com/callforhelp.
 We're going to take a break, but I want you to test your technology.
 It's our daily quiz.
 Go to the website.
 Click on today's quiz.
 Get this right.
 It means you're in a drawing for one year to smartplanet.com,
 a great site for online learning our quiz question.
 What is full duplex?
 Is it a multi-layer image?
 A send and receive simultaneously?
 A ram doubler or a very crowded house?
 My duplex is full!
 Get to the website.
 Give us your answer.
 We'll talk about it when call for help continues.
 Well, that's it.
 That was fun going back in time, Steve Gibson.
 I love it.
 Merry Christmas to you.
 I don't know if you celebrate Christmas or not,
 but I hope you have a wonderful holiday.
 We're not such children anymore, Leo.
 No, my God.
 Oh, my God.
 Fifteen years more than my La Johnas now.
 I've felt old even then and fat and now look at me.
 Well, it's been fun to watch all this happen together.
 And who knows how long we're going to go.
 I'd rather shed a voir du poir than hair, but there you go.
 That's the way it works.
 Steve, we'll be back next week, New Year's Day.
 We're going to do a very special security now as part of our 24 hours of New Year's on tech TV.
 So watch on Twitch.tv.
 Steve, Merry Christmas.
 Happy New Year.
 We'll see you next week.
 Thanks, Leo.
 See you then.
 Bye.
