 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by AOL Radio at AOL.com/podcasting.
 This is Security Now with Steve Gibson, episode 48 for July 13, 2006.
 Your questions, Steve's answers.
 Security Now is brought to you by Astaro, makers of the Astaro Security Gateway
 on the web at www.astar0.com.
 It's time to take a look at a security once again with our security expert in the Wizard of Shields up and spin right, Steve Gibson.
 Good afternoon, Steve. How are you doing?
 Great to be back.
 Good.
 So, before we get into our regular, because it's episode 48, our mod 4 episode, so we're going to do it.
 Yep.
 Question and answer. Before we get into that, a couple of items we want to cover.
 Yeah, I did want to mention that anyone who's got their computer updating its security from Microsoft, anyone using Microsoft Windows,
 the other day was the second Tuesday of the month of July, and Microsoft once again has a little packet of security updates.
 Nothing super critical for end users, there's an Excel problem, various obscure things.
 However, not accepting those and keeping your system current means that they pile up, so you might as well do so.
 It will require a restart of your machine, so you might want to choose when to do this.
 There were a couple server side things that were a little more of a concern, but nothing super extreme.
 You know, I have mine set, and I recommend others do this if you've got service pack too.
 It's one of the options available to you.
 You just open the system properties control panel and go to automatic updates, and I've set mine to automatic recommended,
 which says automatically download recommended updates for my computer and install them.
 However, it doesn't install them.
 I just noticed that as you're talking, yeah, it downloaded them, and I have that little shield in my system tray saying
 updates are ready for your computer click here to install.
 Well, and I'm a little bit more of a control freak, or at least I'm a little more protective of someone else doing things to my machine.
 I mean, there are things that I explicitly don't want installed.
 And in fact, you can go to Windows Update and say, I don't want these things and don't ever try to give them to me again.
 Just stuff, you know, I'm not using and don't need apps I don't have installed that they're doing security updates for.
 I've got mine set for install or download, but don't install.
 Would you actually maybe the way yours is set?
 No, it's not.
 That's what's odd.
 That's what I'm getting is a download and then let me know.
 Of course, I don't get it.
 What it's not doing is saying what the different updates are.
 It's just giving when I click the little shield, it says install, well, no, I guess I can do a custom install.
 So it is exactly as you.
 Right.
 And I do even though I've said, well, I've just got to point out to people that even if you have it automatic, you might want to check your system tray and see if there's that little yellow shield there because in my case, the automatic doesn't do it bottom out.
 Yeah.
 And you know, I do like to sort of peruse the menu.
 See what it's going to be doing.
 Just sort of I sort of know what's going on.
 I dislike the idea of this stuff all just happening in a completely automated fashion also.
 But don't you always install the critical updates anyway?
 I do.
 But the other thing is unlike some people who power cycle their system constantly, so they're always rebooting, I am normally not rebooting my system unless there's a reason.
 I mean, I'll go months literally without rebooting my system.
 Also, I generally have all kinds of stuff going on at once.
 I mean, I've got lots of apps running.
 I've got, you know, stuff spread across three screens.
 And so just restarting my computer at an arbitrary time is not an option for me.
 I need to, you know, deliberately close up loose ends, save things that aren't saved and, you know, sort of tidy up before I do a reboot.
 So I don't want anything telling me, you must reboot now.
 And boy, if you, if you install those updates and then aren't prepared to reboot pretty soon, it passes you to death.
 It's like, okay, fine already.
 I'm going to reboot.
 That's why I have not yet pressed the little yellow shield for the updates.
 And I will as soon as we're done recording this podcast.
 Well, and the other little pre issue here is we got a lot of reports last week from people who are having trouble downloading the previous episode.
 It cut off after a few minutes.
 Episode 46.
 I think it was.
 I think that's two weeks ago.
 Exactly.
 Yeah.
 And I would, so I wanted to mention that, you know, that AOL is using optimized distribution system.
 And every so often, not often.
 Well, I can give you, I can give you the inside story on that.
 I screwed up.
 So it doesn't happen if I do it right.
 That was a case where I uploaded it to cash fly or some other server.
 Oh, no, I know.
 I uploaded it to your server.
 And then I did a cross copy.
 And instead of copying it to a staging folder, which I usually do, I copied it to the main folder.
 And what happens is when, when it's Thursday and people know that security now is about to be posted, they start hitting the server knowing that because we use a consistent file naming convention knowing that that's going to show up.
 If you hit the server as I'm uploading, your particular Akamai caching server, and there are many, will cache a partial version of the file.
 So those people who share that server with you will from then on until Akamai updates get a partial file.
 So one guy zaps it for everybody else.
 Well, not everybody else.
 And that's why what you probably saw and I certainly I saw was it was a small percentage.
 It wasn't it wasn't by any means everybody who downloaded it.
 And there were a couple of different file lengths.
 And that's because two different caching servers had two different partials.
 So the trick on that, what I did was as soon as I figured out that that happened is I reseeded the server with a new copy.
 Akamai makes a hash.
 As far as I can tell, makes a hash of the file.
 When the hash changes, even the slightest bit, it says, oh, there's a new file and it will reseeded servers.
 So I did that now.
 If you've already, you know, if you're using iTunes and it's already downloaded a partial copy, it won't know to get the full copy.
 So unfortunately what you have to do then is remove security now from your podcasts and resubscribe.
 And at that point, it will go, oh, and it'll download a full new version.
 But as you said, you can always get it from a 16 kilobits version from you because you don't use Akamai.
 That's true. So what I wanted to say was for people who are frustrated that they, for whatever reason, at the moment, they can't get the full one.
 That the lower quality quarter size is always available from GRC just as a fallback.
 So I just wanted to reiterate that for those people.
 And I'm glad for the explanation you'll do it the right way from now on.
 Well, I can't promise always. I mean, I knew that this would have, if I figured this out, you know, when we first started using Akamai, it was happening a lot.
 And I finally figured out, oh, and it makes sense.
 The way I do it is upload it to a hidden folder so that people can't download a partial.
 And then I copy it from the hidden folder to the visible folder.
 And presumably that copy happens so quickly or quickly enough that nobody is able to kind of start to download a small partial version of the...
 Oh, it sort of sounds like an imperfect distribution system.
 I think it's the way caching servers work.
 And so yeah, I can't promise it won't happen again because I'm stupid and occasionally, as I did last on 46, I make mistakes.
 But I do know what causes it, I believe, and I know how to avoid it.
 And so assuming no operator error, it shouldn't happen.
 It shouldn't happen very often. Let's put it that way.
 And I'm sufficiently chastened and I'll pay attention.
 I just wasn't paying attention when I transferred it over.
 I think it was, I had forgotten to upload it and it was a late night.
 I'm just getting over here.
 I got it from you, Steve.
 I think you're in Toronto, weren't you?
 Yeah, I think that's what happened.
 I was in Canada.
 So apologies for that.
 But when that happens, yeah, that's what you can either get a 16-kilbit version from Steve or wait a little while.
 And once I've seen enough screams of pain, I'll fix the thing.
 Cool.
 Well, we've got some great questions.
 Oh, I'm excited. I've got my list in front of me.
 Shall I be your reader again?
 Sounds great.
 Starting with Fred from Mountain Home Arkansas, who says,
 "He's becoming increasingly comfortable about using online banking."
 The same is true for--
 Actually, uncomfortable.
 I'm sorry, uncomfortable.
 I'm becoming increasingly comfortable.
 He's more uncomfortable.
 The same is true for paying for online purchases by PayPal,
 removing funds directly from my checking account.
 Are these practices safe?
 My bank account uses a 10-character password.
 I use KeyPass Pass Password Safe to copy and paste the password into the login page for my bank.
 Does this copy and paste procedure eliminate key loggers?
 Boy, this guy's really paranoid from being able to read the password.
 Well, I like this question because he says he's becoming increasingly uncomfortable about using online banking.
 What I think is happening is he's becoming increasingly aware of security and of the problems.
 I mean, he's obviously now sort of aware of what a key logger can do.
 He's uncomfortable with the possibility of bad things happening.
 So I'm glad because this is showing an awareness of what can go wrong.
 At the same time, obviously, he wants the convenience that online banking provides.
 He also mentioned PayPal removing funds directly from his checking account,
 which brought up something that I wanted to mention about PayPal.
 I use PayPal and we've talked about it on the show several times
 because it allows you to transfer funds to a third party site without giving them all of your credit card or personal details.
 You get the money, but PayPal does the transfer.
 I mean, sure, PayPal could screw up too, potentially, but the idea is you'd like,
 from a security standpoint, you'd like to minimize the dissemination of your personally sensitive information where possible.
 The problem I have is that maybe you know why, Leo, PayPal really wants a bank transfer and not a credit card transaction.
 I have both, they required that I give them my bank account information
 in order to like verify me, whatever that meant, even though I was using my credit card for a long time before then.
 So now they have both, but I have to manually go in every single time and change this.
 No, it's like from don't debit my checking account, I want you to take it from my credit card.
 The reason I want that control is if something happened, I was buying something online, for example, from eBay
 and I didn't receive it or it wasn't in the condition that they promised,
 I want the control of being able to challenge that charge on my card.
 If eBay, if PayPal has sucked it out of my bank account, that money is gone.
 And so I prefer manually forcing PayPal to pull the money from my credit card because then I still have that money
 because my credit card will stand on my side and I'm able to deny that charge.
 Maybe that's why PayPal doesn't like the idea, is that it gets just more complex for them.
 I think it's mostly cost, I can address this a little bit because we use PayPal for donations.
 In fact, it's the only way you can donate to twit.tv and that's easy for us.
 We don't have to take credit cards and I think it's more secure.
 Some people are nervous about PayPal.
 In its early days, PayPal did, was kind of notorious for some security issues,
 but they've been owned by eBay for a couple of years now.
 I think they're very secure and I think you do have the advantage of only one provider
 knowing your credit card number.
 For instance, when you pay us at twit.tv, I don't see any of your financial information.
 The money is transferred into a PayPal account.
 I think the reason PayPal would prefer to use checking, and I agree with you, Steve.
 When I want to make payments, I far prefer to use a credit card than my checking account.
 But of course, the fees are lower if they use your checking account.
 I think that's probably the primary reason credit card, as you know, credit card charges are very expensive.
 For whatever reason, they do really encourage you.
 In fact, you can actually run up against a limit of credit card charges.
 Eventually, they'll say, "Sorry, you can't do this anymore.
 You have to become a verified PayPal account with your checking account."
 The way they do it's kind of interesting.
 You give them the checking account number and they transfer two small penny-sized deposits into your account.
 Then you check your statement and see if they came in and verify by saying what size,
 how big the deposit was, two, three cents, a nickel, 12 cents.
 By doing so, verify that you, in fact, own the account.
 You have access to it.
 It seems to work pretty well.
 I haven't heard of any large problems with PayPal.
 They do have a dispute resolution service that I think works quite well.
 In fact, a number of people have been using it.
 I get disputes every few days from people who forgot that they signed up for a yearly subscription to it.
 When their yearly $20 is deducted from their PayPal account, they go,
 "Hey, I didn't get my money.
 What's going on?"
 I'll give them the money back, and that works very well.
 It's a very straightforward dispute resolution system.
 It doesn't have the force of law that the credit card dispute resolution system has, though.
 I think you're probably right that when you're buying something,
 it probably is better to use a credit card.
 Now, I don't know since the credit card is with PayPal.
 The payment goes through PayPal.
 I'm not sure if you have the same protections against the merchant.
 Well, on my side, it's my normal regular credit card that you registered with PayPal.
 You could still say to the credit card, "Don't pay this."
 Oh, absolutely.
 Even though it's through PayPal, not to the merchant directly.
 Correct.
 I think PayPal's dispute resolution works pretty well.
 But I don't like anybody having access to my checking account.
 I have to say, I had to do that to be able to accept PayPal,
 and I haven't had any problems, nor have I heard of any significant problems.
 And it's funny that from a consumer standpoint, on my side,
 when you mentioned that credit card limit, that is what finally induced me
 to give them my banking information,
 and there was also something about my address being unverified.
 There was a lot of pressure on me to give them my banking information,
 and they have it now, and it defaults to using it.
 So every single time I make a payment, I have to go in and I manually override that
 and say, "No, take the money from my card."
 Because again, if I'm buying something that may not work out,
 I want that control.
 It's worth mentioning too, there was a little news blur,
 but I haven't seen lots of attention or press on this.
 Google has now started a payment service in competition with PayPal.
 Yeah, and in fact, I'm looking into using it.
 There's some real advantages if you use Google AdWords.
 The costs are much lower.
 In fact, it's probably free.
 So if you're a merchant that uses Google AdWords to buy your Google Ads,
 there's a lot of incentive to do it.
 Also, if you have Google Ads and accept Google payments,
 you'll see a little button in your ad, all of a sudden,
 which makes the ad stand out a little bit more.
 So I think for anybody who buys Google Ads,
 there's a lot of incentive to do this.
 I think it's called checkout, isn't it?
 Yeah, yeah.
 And eBay doesn't like it.
 eBay, who owns PayPal, has refused to accept Google checkout.
 Oh, boy.
 There's a little battle going on.
 You know, I think that we will become more and more comfortable
 with these kinds of online transfer systems.
 And I think that they'll eventually take over.
 They make a lot of sense.
 Maybe it'll be a Microsoft wallet.
 Maybe it'll be some other company.
 But right now, PayPal is in the forefront.
 And because they're owned by eBay, and there's a lot of scrutiny of them,
 I think that they're trustworthy.
 Also, it's worth mentioning, there was a credit card transaction system
 called SET, S-E-T, that never got off the ground.
 Apparently, it's limping around somewhere.
 But it offered exactly this kind of third party insulation,
 where you and your credit card company would together pay a third party.
 The third party would never have access to your information directly.
 And so, you know, again, it's a variation on this idea.
 And I agree, in general, in the long term, I wouldn't be at all surprised
 if people who are receiving money don't end up with your personal information.
 They just get the money from a third party that is isolating them.
 And again, it allows you to control how many individuals you must trust
 with this financial information ultimately.
 Anyway, to finally answer Fred's question about his...
 If he uses passwords safe to copy and paste his 10-character banking password,
 yes, copy and pasting would probably bypass key loggers,
 but there are many technologies that it would not bypass,
 that are like reading fields or watching the data leaving your computer and so forth.
 So, I mean, if your computer, and there are several questions this week
 that sort of involve this issue of, you know, how safe am I if my computer's got bad stuff in it?
 Well, the answer is you're not.
 I mean, so it is so important to keep the bad stuff out of your machine,
 and we'll see various takes on that in the Q&A that we answered this week.
 But there were a lot of questions that sort of were involved with,
 "Okay, if something's bad in my machine, how bad is it?"
 It's like, "Well, it's really bad."
 That's kind of the wrong question to ask.
 If you think you have a keystroke logger,
 don't worry about whether cutting and pasting is going to work.
 You've got bigger problems.
 Anyway, so Fred sees is increasingly uncomfortable with online banking,
 and so I wanted to address that, you know, the issue is he's not wrong to be increasingly aware of the problems.
 And so, you know, if you're using online banking, certainly the security of your machine is more of a concern.
 I remember that, you know, years ago, people were saying, "Ah, I don't worry about computer security.
 I don't use my computer for anything other than, you know, surfing the net and, you know, doing some Google research and things."
 Well, and my feeling was at the time, "Well, yes, that's today."
 But, you know, it's very clear that services are going to be offered over the Internet,
 and the security of your machine is going to become increasingly important as we're depending upon them more,
 and not just using them as an Internet surfing toy,
 but as, you know, more of our life, which, of course, is what online banking is doing.
 Indeed.
 Matt Jordall of Levin, Arizona, says, "You've recommended the carry-off firewall,
 actually the carry-off personal firewall is the one you recommend,
 the free one from Sunbelt Software, several times on the podcast."
 He says, "I just downloaded it to try it out, and I thought it was great until I realized
 it was limiting my speed on network file transfers.
 I have a Linux box with several large drives around Samba,
 and I'm connected to it over a gigabit switch,
 and normally I can transfer files either way at around 40 megabytes a second,
 and with carry-off installed, I was limited to 20 to 30 megabytes a second,
 receiving 10 megabytes sending.
 Have you ever heard of this before? I have a pretty new motherboard,
 socket AM2 using the N-force 5 SLI chipset,
 and then we just got a very very fast computer.
 It's got a built-in onboard gigabit NIC.
 Why is it slowing down?
 Well, this is an interesting question that I liked,
 because it raises the specter of,
 do our personal firewalls impede and slow down our transfers
 in any significant fashion.
 It's something I remember being aware of because the early personal firewalls,
 if you were transferring data over the net,
 you could see your CPU being a lot busier with the firewall involved
 than it would be if the firewall weren't involved.
 Now, Matt's case is really extreme.
 I mean, he's got gigabit ethernet.
 He's talking about a local transfer among machines,
 and he's 40 megabytes per second that he's normally getting
 is 360 megabits per second.
 So, I mean, he's really got normally super high speed transfer.
 So, first of all, in Matt's case,
 yes, the firewall being another layer of filtering
 is having to take a look at every connection
 and on some level every packet.
 You know, it's moving it through another layer of software
 which is slowing things down.
 Now, the question would be whether he could change his permissions
 on the firewall or get it less involved in his LAN traffic
 than it is in his traffic going out onto the internet.
 But for most people who are using a firewall to insulate them
 from online stuff, they don't have a gigabit connection.
 They're not transferring and can't 360 megabits of data
 that O'Darn is going to be throttled down to only 160.
 I mean, you know, they've got maybe a megabit if they're lucky.
 So, my point is that in general,
 firewalls are going to take a tiny little ding
 in your per packet performance.
 But it's, I mean, it's nothing to worry about
 because what's happening is the internet's overall delay
 across the net is completely masking
 any little packet delay with the packets coming in.
 In a worst-case scenario, which would have been Matt described,
 where there is no effective per packet delay in the network
 because he's got a gigabit network and a fast server
 just pumping files into his system,
 there you're going to see a firewall effect.
 But normally, absolutely none.
 So for most users who aren't in exactly Matt's situation,
 there'd be no problem.
 - True of a router, too.
 - Yes.
 - Anything that's going to process the traffic is going to slow down
 a little bit.
 - Yeah, I fan them, which is kind of an interesting device
 that goes out over the internet and uses the Phantom Technologies
 servers to do the processing.
 And that's about 10 to 20%.
 Given that it's traveling out over to the internet to their servers
 where it's being sanitized and then out to the real world,
 that seems like a minor difference.
 - Yeah, well, and there, it's not quite applicable because--
 - They're doing a lot of war.
 - You're actually running through, through their own servers
 and doing encryption and decryption and so forth.
 - Right.
 - But even then, 10 to 20%, it's not bad.
 - And what would you say?
 It's 5% or less for a normal firewall or rather?
 - Actually, it's zero.
 And I guess I didn't describe it too well because I didn't want
 to go on about this.
 But the delay in, I mean, the internet is all about--
 - It's all about the internet.
 - Anyway.
 - Exactly.
 - So while it's waiting, it has time to do what it does.
 - Well, the internet's protocols are designed brilliantly
 to hide the delay.
 For example, computers are able to send packets ahead of time.
 And the internet only acknowledges them.
 Acknowledgments can come late and everything still goes.
 So the guys who designed this packaging system understood
 that they had to have protocols that could intelligently
 anticipate the size of the buffers available at each end
 and send things in advance of technically receiving permission
 or acknowledgments.
 So zero is the overhead in a typical situation
 because your firewall is negligible compared
 to the trans-internet delays which are completely masked
 by the brilliant protocols we have.
 - Now you did one other thing and I'm just going to bring this up
 because I don't want you to get emails saying your math is wrong.
 You said 40 megabytes.
 It's not wrong.
 I know why you did it.
 I just wanted to clarify it.
 You said 40 megabytes a second is 360 megabits per second.
 - Oh, 320.
 - Well, but I was wondering because isn't there,
 so it's normally eight bits per megabyte.
 - Right.
 - But isn't it, or whatever it is, you normally multiply by eight.
 - Eight bits per byte, I should say.
 But sometimes there's an overhead byte, a ninth bit.
 And I thought maybe you were including that in your calculus.
 - Nope, I just multiplied it all.
 - Okay, so I did save you some email.
 - Yes.
 - Brian and Toronto ad.
 I thought you were being really clever.
 There you go.
 I give you a lot of credit, Steve.
 Brian and Toronto asks again about Kerrio's personal firewall.
 He says it has a network intrusion protection or, sorry,
 prevention system.
 I like to call it nips.
 And a host intrusion prevention system, hips.
 Can you explain what intrusion prevention systems are
 and what type of attacks they prevent?
 - Yeah, real quickly, without getting into the specific details,
 because I want to focus on the question.
 He talks about a network intrusion prevention and a host intrusion prevention.
 I thought this was a good question because it highlights that personal firewalls
 are beginning to evolve and take more responsibility for host side problems,
 i.e. root kit style attacks.
 There are many ways in which software running in our computer
 is able to involve itself with other software in our computer.
 A classic instance is, for example, a programmer's debugger,
 which is able to reach into another program and stop it and single step it
 and allow it to be analyzed.
 Well, the fact that one program called the debugger is able to insert itself
 into another process.
 You know, that's nice, except that it also means that malware
 is able to do the same sort of thing.
 So there isn't much isolation among processes,
 not nearly as much as most users would like.
 And I'm annoyed that, in fact, that the security is as bad internally as it is.
 You know, the people who say, "Well, but what can you do?"
 Once malware is in your computer, anything could happen, which is true,
 and there are other technologies we'll be talking about in the future.
 We're going to do some episodes on virtual machine technology, Leo,
 to talk about what virtual machines are and how they work.
 So it is possible to create very good isolation,
 but by default, ROSs don't typically provide that kind of protection.
 So what's happening is that personal firewalls are acquiring features
 not just about the incoming network traffic,
 but about the behavior of the programs in the computer themselves.
 And so that's what this whole difference is between network intrusion prevention,
 which is just packet stuff on network communications and a host intrusion prevention.
 It deals with behavior and catching malicious conduct of programs,
 like root kits, trying to mess around with your computer internally.
 Is this related to IDS, which I've never heard of the hips and nips,
 but I have heard of IDS intrusion detection systems,
 and many firewalls have those?
 Yeah, IDS is a technology basically that looks at the traffic going by.
 So it's not a firewall from the standpoint of simply blocking or allowing packets,
 but an IDS actually interprets the traffic and tries to find bad things going on.
 For example, you might have an IDS on front of a server that is looking at like bad conduct
 in the URLs, which remote users are submitting.
 There have been many problems in, for example, in the past with Microsoft's IIS server,
 where you could basically take it over by using a malformed URL.
 So an IDS could be in front of that sort of pruning and purifying the traffic on the way in
 and also detecting anything that looked suspicious.
 Got it.
 Doug Darbuck writing from his Hotmail account has a question about root kits.
 He writes, "If you have a secure firewall installed in your system,
 such as Zonal Armor, again, the carry-out firewall, that's three in a row now,
 will these be able to detect the traffic generated by a root kit in the event your system gets infected one by one?"
 You know, he's talking about the fact that software firewalls watch outbound connections.
 He says, "Fortunately, I haven't been infected by a root kit,
 but I always closely monitor any communications aboutbound programs or services.
 I imagine that unless the root kit installs its own TCP/IP stack,
 some of the better software firewalls will detect the traffic."
 True.
 So here he's asking, "If I've got a personal software firewall whose job it is
 to control the outbound traffic on my system so that I know which applications I'm giving permission,
 is there a way around it?"
 And the answer is yes.
 The firewall vendors have certainly done everything they can to prevent being circumvented.
 And so, and over time, they've gotten much better.
 The very first version 1.0 software firewalls would have been easy to circumvent
 if there was malware that was smart enough to do so.
 Back then, the malware wasn't that smart.
 So it's been an arms race.
 The malware is getting better.
 The firewalls are also getting better to keep pace with the malware.
 And I mean, this is what the firewall companies are doing,
 is working to keep their products as secure as possible.
 The problem is, as we've said, once something is in your computer,
 all bets are off.
 They could turn the firewall off.
 There is malware, yes, there is malware which has turned off well-known firewalls.
 And there's been malware which knows about many firewalls.
 So it's able to deal with whatever you happen to be using.
 Then the firewall vendors countered by making their firewalls much harder to turn off.
 But again, the rule is, if something's in your machine,
 you just can't be sure what's going on.
 So the outbound monitoring is more useful for non-malicious programs that you want to control
 than technically, then for something that is absolutely determined
 to get data out of your machine, the problem is it's just all software
 and it's all pretty much running in the same environment using the same services.
 So it's an arms race.
 They don't call it malware for nothing, right?
 Lydell Anderson of East Hartford, Connecticut has listened to all of our podcasts.
 He says he's read the GRC pages on DOS, DDoS, and DR-DOS attacks.
 DR-DOS, what's that?
 That's distributed reflection denial of service.
 I thought it was the old digital research operating system.
 It shows what I know.
 He still has a question though.
 How can I protect myself from a DDoS that's aimed at poor 80 on my web server?
 Obviously, I can't block traffic to poor 80.
 That had to defeat the purpose of the website.
 So what do I do to protect?
 Well, this of course follows on last week's talk about internet weaponry.
 And I'd like the question because it sounds like, "Oh, here's a guy who's got a web server."
 And maybe he's had problems with denial of service attacks before, maybe not.
 But he wonders, "What can he himself do?"
 The answer, which really follows from what we were talking about last week,
 is unfortunately, not much.
 I mean, virtually nothing.
 This is comparable to a DDoS attack on your router.
 Well, yes.
 The idea would be that he needs to offer poor 80 to the world
 so that anybody anywhere is able to send traffic to poor 80.
 The problem is that means that botnets everywhere in the world can send traffic to poor 80
 and flood him.
 And it's legitimate traffic.
 You can't distinguish it from illegitimate traffic.
 That's the problem.
 Right.
 Now, if he were hosted by a company which was offering protective services,
 like we were saying, for example, some gambling sites now are using that technology
 in order to be more resistant towards against really large attacks,
 if he were there, then he'd be protected by the services offered by his host.
 But most servers in the net, because that kind of protection is very expensive, are not.
 And so denial of service attacks are just something you tolerate.
 It's just, I mean, there isn't a simple solution for this guy, unfortunately.
 How do they protect?
 What do they do to protect you?
 As we talked about last week, they just have really big pipes that are able to absorb
 a phenomenal amount of traffic.
 That's it.
 That's the only thing you can do.
 That's really the only thing you can do.
 We had talked some years ago about maybe changing the way you respond to the SIN requests
 by delaying or waiting for a second SIN request.
 Any of techniques like that work?
 Well, there are many different types of appliances now being sold.
 But fundamentally, because of the way packets convene, as we were talking about,
 the analogy of a magnifying glass focusing the sunlight down to a single point on the palm
 of your hand.
 Similarly, unless you have a really huge pipe in the first place, that pipe is going to
 get flooded.
 And it sounds like this guy, Lydell, just has a web server and he'd like to have protection
 from denial of service attacks, and he's just like a regular guy.
 The problem is there just isn't any solution.
 Yeah.
 Typically, when you buy a hosting solution, especially if you buy a dedicated server,
 so you spend some money, you'll get a 10 megabit pipe.
 Now, that's easily flooded by a distributed denial of service attack.
 10 megabits is nothing.
 Right.
 A larger pipe that you might pay a little extra for is 100 megabits.
 That takes a little bit bigger of an attack, but you last week you talked about attacks
 that were considerably bigger than that in the gigabit range.
 10 megabits is 40 bots each sending a quarter megabit out of a cable modem.
 100 megabits is 400 bots.
 By today's standards, those are small networks.
 So you've got thousands of bots in your IRC bot network.
 You can choke pretty much any pipe unless the guy's got gigabit pipes.
 Yep.
 That's very expensive.
 Trust me, I know.
 You can see we'll go to Daniel Hummer of Modesto, California, who asks, "Is there a file size
 limit or maybe a limit to the number of sites you can block using the hosts file?"
 We talked about that a couple episodes ago before your system starts really bogging down.
 Yeah.
 We got a bunch of great mail after that.
 Some people found large files on the internet that we talked about that are being maintained,
 and they said it's amazing when they added that host, that large file to their host's
 file, all kinds of stuff just stopped.
 You know, ads and nonsense because their computer was now looking up in the host file before
 going out onto the internet to see whether the host file provided an IP, which in this
 case is like 0.0.0.0 or 127.0.0.1, something other than the real IP address that prevents
 your computer from looking any further.
 So his question, I really like Daniel's question is because some of these files are really
 big.
 I mean, they're very comprehensive.
 They go on and on and on.
 And in fact, it's an education just to read through.
 You see all of these weird sites and things.
 The answer is no.
 The host's file can be very big because Windows is very quick in looking through it.
 But more importantly, it's the speed of that versus the speed of going out across your
 connection to your ISP's DNS server and doing the lookup.
 Your computer would have to be incredibly slow in checking the host file for that not
 to be much faster than making an external request.
 So there really is no problem with host files getting really large in terms of their own
 performance.
 And they end up really speeding things up because they offload that traffic from your
 internet connection.
 Yeah, makes sense.
 I mean, even if you had hundreds and hundreds, maybe even thousands of lines, it will just
 still be a small text file relatively and computers are very fast at getting through
 those.
 Especially now compared to, for example, modem or even a, well, an old analog modem or cable
 modem, which, you know, and it's just, it's a second of delay versus just milliseconds
 to check the file.
 Plus think about what you're saving in terms of images and so forth, you'd be downloading.
 I think it's always, it's probably always a net gain in speed.
 Right.
 David Cockrell of Bozier, I can't get that wrong last night, Bozier City, Louisiana wants
 to monitor his systems traffic, but he worries will freeware like TCP view and TDI MOS always
 show network traffic related to these tools that the bad guys use.
 I was real curious about how those tools would show RDP, for instance, across a Himachi connection.
 That's the remote desktop protocol Microsoft uses for Windows, remote desktop.
 TDI MOS did show the traffic across a Himachi connection, but I wonder if there were a way
 for traffic to be covered up by the tricks that are used in the bot world.
 You better explain this question because it's a little complicated.
 Well, this is, this again relates to could something in my computer alter the proper
 behavior of my computers of other software in the computer.
 And the answer unfortunately is yes.
 So we're going to be talking about network monitoring actually, I think next week, we're
 going to talk about these various freeware and built in ways to see what your computer
 is doing at any instant in time.
 So the question is, is there a way for that to be fooled?
 And unfortunately, yes, if something were is in your computer, it can do anything it
 wants.
 Now, tools like TCP view and TDI Mon by by Siss internals guys are terrific tools and
 they're great, but there again, you can only really know that they're going to be doing
 the right thing for monitoring programs that are sort of playing by the rules.
 There are ways that they can be circumvented if somebody wanted to get traffic out of your
 machine and it's software maliciously trying to do so, it probably can, or at least you
 cannot know that it can't.
 Now there is an alternative though, and that is if you were to run these tools in a separate
 machine, that is if you're, for example, if you have a router, either a consumer router
 that shows you what's going on or a Linux system or a BSD Unix machine, which is on your
 network perimeter, it has the ability not to be victim to any software running in your
 host machines.
 So if someone really wanted to know for sure what was going on, the idea would be to get
 that monitoring software out of the environment that you're trying to monitor, put it on a
 separate machine, which you are, which you're not using as a workstation, you're not, it's
 not going to be victim to random windows, infestations and malware and things.
 And by virtue of being isolated by a network connection, software is not going to have
 the same access, malicious software is not going to have the same access to your network
 monitoring tools that it would if that if those tools were running in the same system.
 So, so there is a way to do this by separating those functions.
 And that sounds like it's always a good idea for security, but of course it requires extra
 hardware and so forth.
 Right.
 Sean Doyle writes from somewhere on Planet Earth, did he say that it did you?
 Oh, he actually, he actually put that down as his address somewhere on Planet Earth.
 My goal is to run a game server that my friend and I can play together on.
 My problem is the game server requires information from port 8080, a standard internet port.
 But as soon as I turn on port forwarding to make that port available, your shields up service
 at grc.com highly recommended shields up grc.com shows a big red flag indicating I'm open
 to attack from the whole internet.
 Is there a way for me to do this safely?
 Well, this was a great question because it, it highlights what we've talked about with
 port forwarding.
 Basically it sounds like Sean's behind a router, which is good because it gives him protection
 from any unsolicited inbound traffic.
 The problem is his friend is unable to connect to his server, which is running behind his
 router.
 So he needs to do port forwarding that is open up a port on his router so that unsolicited
 incoming traffic to port 8080 is able to get through into a server.
 The problem is then if he checks his security with my shields up service at grc, I'm checking
 incoming traffic on port 8080 because it is a commonly used port for web servers.
 A normal port is port 80, but non-high permission servers, servers that don't have root permissions
 which are not allowed to open ports below 1024, often will run on 8080 just because it's
 a higher port that they have access to.
 So the cool thing is that Sean doesn't want to offer that server to everyone in the world.
 If he needed to offer it to everyone in the world like that prior question asked where
 he was just wanting to run a server on port 80 and let everybody in, the problem is everybody
 could be malicious.
 In Sean's case, he only wants one friend to be able to connect.
 Well if he knows that friends IP address, he can only allow traffic in from that one IP.
 Now if his router allows him to set up basically a firewall rule, many of the newer firewall
 routers will allow you to say the remote IP needs to be this on port 8080 and send the
 traffic on.
 So in his router, he might be able to permit only that, you know, his one friend to have
 incoming traffic on port 8080.
 But even if the router doesn't do that, his server certainly can.
 So because any traffic coming through the router will be forwarded to his server machine,
 a firewall running there could be instructed, drop everything, don't bounce anything, don't
 respond, be stealthful on port 8080, except for traffic coming from this one remote IP.
 So there should be a way he can configure himself and of course he can use shields up
 to make sure that port 8080 is stealthed for everyone but his one friend.
 I suspect he like I have has a cheap old router that doesn't do that the firewall rules.
 So that would be a good reason to upgrade to a newer router, either that or he ought
 to be able to do the same thing on his server.
 Right.
 Oh boy, I'm usually good with names.
 This one's eluded me, it's probably it's it's in Flemish, which is part of the problem.
 Verichert Armand in Antwerp Belgium was worried, I hope it's in Flemish and I'm not making
 something up was worried by a website he visited.
 He says a firewall test revealed that my private address, whether that's whatever 192.168 or
 10.0.0 can be seen from the internet.
 Can it be reached from the internet?
 This is so annoying.
 That's all the time though.
 It does.
 And that's why I wanted to bring it up is that there are websites that terrify people by
 saying this is your private address and they'll show 192.168.0.1 or .2 or whatever.
 Well, they're okay, there are two things going on.
 First of all, what's happening is he's he's browsing with with scripting enabled, which
 I frown on, but but it does allow the work I mean, our own site doesn't work with that
 a little JavaScript running, so you can turn JavaScript off, but you're going to get a
 very different experience on the web.
 Well, yeah, you know that I've talked about internet zones and how you can get the best
 of both worlds by by locking down if you're using an explorer, by locking down your your
 script processing for unknown sites and only selectively enabling it for sites that you
 trust.
 The thing I would point out though that unlike ActionScript, which really is dangerous, JavaScript
 is is sandbox and they're it's pretty difficult.
 In fact, I don't know if many exploits except where their browser holes that take advantage
 of JavaScript.
 And that's the problem, of course, is that scripting is complex and we have a long history
 of browser holes.
 So it's just, you know, from a security standpoint, if you can, better not to have it enabled.
 Anyway, the point is that this site and there are many of them that are scaring people is
 using scripting in the browser to determine the machine's IP address and then presenting
 it in a window as if they knew it as if they knew exactly.
 But they may have been sent it by the script and then sent it back to his browser or it
 could just be displaying it in the script locally saying, this is your your IP.
 Well, okay.
 So the annoying thing is that he could have full internet security with a perfectly operating
 router blocking all traffic.
 He is not exposed in any way yet this web page is scaring him because it's looking at
 his IP inside his computer and showing it to him on his screen, which means nothing from
 a standpoint of security except as I said that he's got scripting enabled, which he'd
 be better off without if he wants to get into that whole battle.
 Okay.
 The second thing is it's a private IP 192 168 dot something something, you know, 10 dot
 anything 172 dot 16 through whatever.
 I mean, the and we've talked about this several times historically, those IP addresses are
 non routable IPs, they are specifically set aside for people to have in their own local
 networks so that so that they're able to create networks that don't conflict with IPs on the
 public internet.
 So even if this company had his IP address or anyone had his IP address, you can't use
 it at all.
 It will go nowhere packets that are stuck on the internet aimed at those IPs are just
 dropped immediately by routers.
 So he has nothing to worry about and he went to a website that was unfortunately working
 to scare him.
 Yeah.
 And I guess that would be the thing I would say is that I guess you could turn off JavaScript
 but better to know that it's harmless.
 You can't there's nothing they can do with that number even if they knew it, right?
 And they probably don't know it because most of the time what this is is client side and
 they don't send the number back.
 They just display it.
 Brian Voller in Ashland, Oregon has been busy.
 He writes, I would like to offer you a suggestion on combating fishing.
 That's fishing with a pH, those online scams or email scams where they try to get you to
 give up your private information in hopes that you'll popularize this technique.
 A few days ago, I got a fishing email claiming to be from PayPal.
 I decided to respond.
 Oh, boy, I know already I don't like this, just read it.
 I decided to respond with a fake login and password.
 I used I am a fisher as the email address and a series of random letters for the password.
 I submitted it several times very quickly in hopes that the fishing site was feeding
 them directly into PayPal instead of saving them for later in hopes of triggering the PayPal
 intrusion detection system.
 If PayPal looked at the logs, this would be 100% proof that it was a fisher trying to
 get in.
 I would like to know if you think this would be effective, especially if many tech savvy
 users would do the same thing on mass.
 Of course, we'd have to submit logs.
 It appeared legit but could be recognized only by the target site as fake, a bit like
 injecting radioactive dye in the body to trace a chemical's path.
 I think the best way would be for the users to make up a fake login name or trigger password
 that enter that, et cetera, et cetera.
 It's why we get a lot of emails like this for people who think they have conquered spam
 or fishing or viruses.
 Well, yes.
 This is a common thing.
 Everybody always wants some magic bullet.
 The reason I wanted to address this is there are people who, and I understand the emotional
 side of this who are really frustrated and annoyed by all the nonsense going on the net.
 They want to take some action themselves to deal with the problem.
 It's like people who historically looked at their logs of internet traffic and took
 the time to track down every random IP address that was sending junk at their IP and figure
 out who to send an email complaint letter to or the same thing with spam, tracking it
 back to the quote, "originating server" and complaining to the source.
 Fishing is the same sort of thing.
 I don't want to blunt Brian's enthusiasm for this, but my experience has been that
 you just want as little involvement with this junk as possible.
 If you get fishing email, just delete it.
 How much time do you have?
 Well, there's a legitimate security concern here, too.
 By clicking on that link in the email, he's going to a website and he doesn't know what
 malware might also exist on that website.
 It's not merely a form.
 That's a very good point.
 In fact, by having any involvement with email that you suspect is not legitimate, I mean,
 he says he knew it was fishing email.
 The only proper thing to do is delete it.
 Hit the delete key.
 It really is the right thing.
 And just getting the habit of not clicking links in email, period, no matter who they
 come from.
 Don't click links in email.
 That's a very dangerous thing to do.
 Yeah.
 Eric Stauffer and Sonny Malibu has been thinking about internet weaponry, our last show in
 DOS attacks.
 He says, "If a website is attacked, as you explained, they cannot track the origin
 of the traffic because the return IP addresses are often spoofed.
 However, since it appears that the ISPs are logging user traffic, couldn't that--"
 No.
 It says, "Thanks, President Bush.
 But I'll leave out the politics here.
 Couldn't that information be used to help the community get rid of this malware?"
 Ah, an interesting point.
 When a website is attacked, ISPs can be alerted to this fact.
 In a sense, local ISPs would have the list of originating computers.
 They could send messages to the probably unknowing participants in the attack that they may have
 bots in their system.
 Instructions could be providing for removing these bots.
 He's got a hold of something very important, I think.
 Well, yeah.
 I like the question because it brings up an issue that we didn't discuss in the whole
 internet weaponry side, and that is the role of the ISP.
 You can't spoof an IP address without, in effect, the collusion of your internet service
 provider.
 Well, yes.
 And the idea being that-- and I've talked about this, I've written about it on my denial
 of service pages.
 The idea is that if you have a bot running in your machine at home, your machine has
 an IP address which is known to your ISP.
 Your ISP is what essentially is offering a range of public IPs to all of its customers.
 So the ISP knows what are valid source IPs for the traffic leaving their network.
 That is to say, if there was a bot in your machine using random numbers for the IP of
 the originating computer, sending the packet, that is the source IP, the source of the packet,
 was just random numbers.
 Those packets, egressing, that is leaving your ISP's network, are clearly invalid if
 the source IP could not be possible.
 That is, if it is not part of the network that the ISP controls, then it can't be a
 valid packet leaving the ISP.
 So there has been, historically, a real push for ISPs doing what's called egress filtering.
 That is filtering packets, egressing, or leaving their network, and by filtering we
 just mean dropping.
 Just drop any packets that your network can't have generated legitimately because the source
 IP is not one that you own, ISP.
 The problem is this involves more work and more equipment, more trouble, and it involves
 the ISP in a way that, so far, as far as I know, very few, if any, ISP's are bothering
 with.
 That's too bad because that is single-handedly would eliminate IP address spoofing.
 Well, and the counter-argument is, well, yes, maybe just for that one ISP, the thing that
 users could do, if this became prevalent, then what bot nets would do is not randomly
 generate source IPs, but generate source IPs in the neighborhood of the computer that
 they're living on, and so that would essentially generate IPs as if from other local users
 in the ISP's network.
 So again, good as this idea is, there are ways around it, which is not to say that it
 doesn't make sense to do it because it would solve some of the problem but not solve all
 the problem.
 Now, he's actually proposing that ISP's then use their super-secret powers to prosecute
 people who are doing this or who's turning them in.
 Or to advise them, well, what's going on now?
 It is the case that an ISP would know because on their network, you're part of a LAN and
 so they would--
 They know everybody's name and address.
 Yes, and they know your actual IP, they also probably have your MAC address of your adapter
 because that's the way, as we know, traffic within a LAN over an Ethernet LAN is actually
 moved by MAC address, which is not spoofable by a bot running in someone's computer.
 So it would be possible for an ISP to be more involved and, for example, detect that there
 are bot infected machines within their network.
 I've heard of ISP's doing this, but it's not something that's done pervasively at this
 point.
 You know, it's funny because when spam became a problem, internet service providers resisted
 the notion of blocking port 25 or--
 Well, of getting involved.
 Not getting involved at all.
 It just didn't want to get involved.
 Eventually, we're compelled to and I think maybe the same thing will happen here with
 that.
 Well, and we do see things happening.
 For example, my own cable modem provider, Cox, in Southern California, it's blocking
 a whole bunch of different ports where there have been problems in the past.
 They are generally known of the various Microsoft security vulnerability, 135, 137, 38, 39, 445.
 Things where there have been problems in the past.
 The ISP is saying, you know, basically for their own benefit, they don't want bots infecting
 their network and causing problems because it does create bandwidth traffic that they
 have to pay for.
 So at some level, there is an expense to this.
 Although an interesting point is raised in the net neutrality controversy here because
 if there were, for instance, a security researcher in his blog wrote this up and I thought it
 was an interesting argument, I want to thank John Poit for passing it along to me.
 It's actually Sans and I'll put a link in the show notes to the Sans is the Internet
 Storm Center and it's John Bambeneck who says, well, if net neutrality were enforced, that
 would inhibit the ability of Internet service providers to start blocking certain ports
 or somehow protecting certain points.
 I don't think so.
 I think that a law that prevents ISPs from discriminating against some traffic wouldn't
 go so far as to prevent them from doing it for security reasons.
 Well, it might scare Internet service providers to do that kind of thing.
 All the ISP would have to do would be to add to their service agreement a waiver from that
 saying that anyone who wants service from the ISP agrees that they are not enforcing net
 neutrality for the benefit of their providers or their subscribers, they're going to block
 the following ports.
 Right.
 Blah, blah, blah.
 Yeah.
 So our, our last question, let me open the envelope here, it's been kept on Funk and
 Wagnell's porch for the last two weeks, Jason Partlow in Maryland has a terrific question
 about security zones and Internet Explorer, terrific because you like security zones.
 Suppose, for example, that I have the Internet zone set to high security, that's how Steve
 does it, and my trusted site zone set to medium security.
 If I go to a trusted site, but it has a frame or an advertisement on the page, it's from
 another site, we'll Internet Explorer treat that frame or add like it's also a part of
 the trusted site zone because it is coming from a different server, isn't it?
 Yeah.
 If I have my webmail provider, for instance, set it as a trusted site, but I get an email
 that has a body with a nasty script in it.
 Will I be safe?
 I presume it means he's on the webmail provider's site like Yahoo Mail or whatever.
 Correct.
 Good questions.
 Yeah.
 And the answer is Internet Explorer does the right thing to, to review very briefly what's
 going on.
 Internet Explorer allows you by domain to, to control the behavior of your browser.
 So that, so that in, so that for example, by default, anything in the so-called Internet
 zone could have higher security than, than domain names that you have decided to trust,
 like your email provider, your bank and, and so forth.
 So Internet Explorer essentially is, is dynamically varying its security based on where you go
 on the web, which is really, it's a great concept.
 But I love the idea because it allows someone to really bolt their security down and then
 selectively trust sites where they're going to lessen their security in order to get the,
 the higher level of functionality, which many sites and increasingly are requiring like
 having scripting running.
 Anyway, so the question was, if, if you had a page that was a hybrid, it was, the page
 was coming from someone you're, you had told Internet Explorer to trust, yet it had components
 which it was fetching from untrusted sites.
 Does that wrapper of trust extend to anyone that the, that, that web, that web provider
 or the web server or the page trust and the answer is no.
 Internet Explorer looks at every single request individually and will restrict, will properly
 restrict the security of any components that you haven't told it to trust.
 There are third party programs out there that extend Internet Explorer make it easier to
 block down, lock down Internet Explorer.
 In fact, there's one and I'm trying to remember the name of it that locks down your entire
 computer.
 It basically says, you can run as administrator, but it basically says that you don't have
 permission to do anything unless you specifically open it up and I just can't remember the name
 of the program.
 I'll have to, I'll have to leave that for the show notes or something like that.
 But you just do it by hand and that seems to work very well.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Well, that's it.
 12 down.
 Thank you, Steve.
 Absolutely.
 You're an amazing fella.
 If there are people who listen and I know that there are many security pros who listen
 who are concerned with security, they know about a star.
 I don't need to tell them a star is one of the best known security firms out there because
 of course, if they're a star, a security gateway software, really fantastic stuff.
 A star, it is great for your medium or small business network.
 If you need protection from spam from viruses from hackers, of course, you get complete VPN
 capabilities intrusion protection, as we were talking about, but the real deal content
 filtering.
 And of course, an industrial strength firewall and a simple, easy to use high performance
 appliance.
 ASTRO.com, it's open source too, I really like that or call 877 the number four ASTRO
 to schedule a free trial of a star of security gateway appliance in your business.
 Then I also want to point people to the really cool, a star of command center version one,
 which is now free for users of the ASG that really gives you a neat way of monitoring your
 entire network.
 I use a 120 and I'm very happy with it.
 So when you're talking security, the name of star, absolutely should come to mind and
 we thank them for their support of security now.
 Yeah.
 A reminder that Steve site, grc.com is a place to go for as he said, if I screw up 16 kilobits
 versions of the show or anybody wants a band with a easy bandwidth friendly version of
 security now, transcriptions too, thanks to our great transcriptionist Elaine and all
 the show notes at grc.com/security. Now that's where you'll find shields up.
 Of course, Steve's great security software.
 He does a lot of free pro bono stuff and the bread and butter for Steve Gibson, which is
 spin right, the fantastic file recovery and maintenance utility everybody.
 If you've got a hard drive, you should have spin right.
 I mean, I'm serious.
 It is, it has saved my bacon many a time and if you want to see some great testimonials,
 go to spinrit.info and Steve's always putting up new letters there.
 Let's see, anything else we want to cover?
 I think we're good for the day next week.
 Next week, we're going to, well, maybe not next week, but the next couple of weeks, we're
 going to talk about virtualization.
 Yep.
 And that'll be fun.
 Virtual machine technology, but I want to talk about monitoring communications traffic.
 How end users who want to kind of get a sense for what's going on in their computer can
 quickly make that determination and that's what we'll do next week.
 Next week.
 Episode 49.
 Thank you for being here, Steve Gibson.
 Thank you all for listening.
 Remember, take a look at the new site, twit.tv and those donation buttons are still there
 and a beautiful lime green motif.
 If you want to support the show, we really appreciate your contributions.
 I'm Leo LaPorte.
 We'll see you next time on Security Now.
 (gentle music)
