 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by AOL Radio at AOL.com/podcasting.
 This is Security Now with Steve Gibson, Episode 44 for June 15th, 2006.
 Your questions, Steve's answers.
 "Security Now is brought to you by Astaro, Makers of the Astaro Security Gateway, on
 the web at www.ASTARO.com."
 I smell a mod 4 episode. I do indeed. Leo Laport here, Steve Gibson in Irvine, and it's
 Episode 44, and as far as I can tell, that's divisible by 4.
 That's like a double mod 4.
 That's a double mod 4.
 So we get our usual...
 It's even mod 11.
 Mod 11, mod 4, mod 2, mod 0.
 All right, new math show off.
 Let's get to the questions. Unless there's anything we want to cover from our last episode
 where we talked all about ports, people really appreciated that, by the way, got a lot of
 positive feedback.
 And in fact, some of the questions that we're going to deal with today are follow-ons from
 that, so we've got 12.
 12 of them, starting with Nick from New Jersey, who says he hasn't caught up with all the
 past episodes, so apologize if he's asking something we've already answered it properly.
 As a matter of fact, yes, he has.
 I was wondering about this program called Himachi, and we really use for our minds.
 It promises virtual land functions over the internet all encrypted. I'm wondering how
 you and Leo feel about the technologies behind it, and the features included, I thought it
 might make a good show topic.
 You might.
 Well, exactly. I put it in here. I got a kick out of it because he's excited about the
 show. I want to tell you, Nick, that there's an episode titled Himachi Rocks, and I love
 the title. Apparently, Himachi's author's wife has been giving him back when we did the
 show a hard time about us doing a podcast called Himachi Rocks.
 We absolutely love Himachi, so Nick, if you go to grc.com/securitynow, you'll find the
 archive of all past shows. Just scroll down. I don't even know what number it was, but
 it was probably in the 20s somewhere where I thoroughly researched, checked out Himachi,
 had a whole bunch of great email with its author, Alex Pankarov, and really did a complete
 expose on how it works, and we love it. It rocks.
 It literally rocks. Let me see here. I think it was. I'm going to keep going back through
 the episodes trying to find which episode it was.
 Yeah. How far back was that?
 It goes away. Way back. It was at 22. Let me see here. I'm looking at all of our, nope.
 It goes back to when we were talking about VPNs, doesn't it?
 Yes. It was in our whole, you know, how to securely connect yourself to other machines.
 And I have to say, I mean, we haven't talked about it a lot since, but there's a constant
 flux of Himachi questions and accolades. I mean, people really do like it. My own tech
 support, Kai Greg, is using, he moved from my area to Phoenix, from where he still does
 tech support for GRC, answering questions that our customers have who have purchased
 or are considering purchasing Spinrite. He's online several times a day and gets responses
 back to people immediately. He had some clients that he worked with on the side who he's
 who he's completely Himachiized in order to get into their networks and do remote management
 of their corporate facility. Isn't that great? I mean, it's, it really is super.
 Yeah. A lot of gamers use it because it's a way to create a LAN party without everybody
 being in the same location.
 Right. And in fact, I remember that one of the questions I answered when you and I were
 together on the call on your call for help show in Toronto was a gamer wanted to be able
 to hook two Xboxes together. And of course, the Xbox direct connection couldn't understand
 going across the internet. But by using Himachi, you both are on a five dot network. So you're
 like, you know, it looks like a LAN to anything that you want to connect locally. And it is,
 of course, easy to hook two Xboxes together locally.
 Right. Right. So and don't feel bad that you haven't heard all the episodes. We understand
 there's lots of good stuff coming up. In fact, you're going to hear if you're back there,
 you've got a long way to go.
 Well, but it is worth recommending to people that, you know, they remember that the podcast
 for at least from our standpoint, because we've done so much sort of research and tutorial
 content, not just current event stuff. There's there's this archive of stuff at GRC that,
 you know, anyone can browse through and you'll find lots of really good stuff there. You
 have a list at grc.com/securitynow of every episode. So they can just click through those.
 Yeah. And of course, you know, transcripts and a complete archive of all the past episodes.
 And just so people know, I don't know, I'm really publicized. Once we open the new site,
 by the way, the site redesign will happen in a couple of weeks, the new site will launch.
 But then it'll be fairly easy. We'll have a complete episode guide. But until then,
 you can always enter twit.tv/SN and an episode number. So SN1, SN2, all the way up to SN44.
 And that'll take you to that episode. So it's not widely known, but that is a convention
 I've been using.
 It's funny, too. I see people like trying to get ahead of us, trying to pull content
 from the week before the next week or the week after because it'll pop up in my logs
 and I'll go, "Oh, okay. Well, we're not going there yet. They must just be anxious and wondering
 if the content's already been posted."
 It's happened almost every time. In fact, I had to start moving things to a staging
 area after I uploaded it because people were screwing up the caches, the Akamai caches.
 Finally, just put it somewhere hidden until the time comes. Ray from Irvine, your neck
 of the woods says, "When I'm behind a corporate firewall going through a proxy server to the
 outside world, how exposed am I to the IT department when I go to a secure site, an SSL
 encrypted site for banking or online ordering? Does the IT guy see my password, my credit
 card info and so on?"
 Yeah, that's a great question because there are situations where corporate IT has deliberately
 configured their border to decrypt a person's communications. For whatever reason, they
 might want to be monitoring. They might want to be filtering it. They might be for a benign
 and beneficial purpose, for example, performing anti-spam filtering or malware and virus and
 spyware filtering because people certainly can get infected over secure connection if
 the secure site at the other end is doing something bad. What anyone can do when they're
 on a secure site is right-click on their page and look at the certificate. We've talked
 about this in several different contexts but not exactly this context. You should see,
 for example, if you were at PayPal and you had an HTTPS secure connection or Google,
 if you were using Google mail securely or whatever, if you right-click on the page and
 look at the certificate, you will see the URL or the name on that certificate. If it's
 www.paypal.com or google.com, whatever, then that means that you actually have a non-intercepted
 secure connection directly to that site and nothing is there interposing itself. What
 can happen is that corporations can install their own certificate on their employees'
 browsers, which will essentially allow them to intercept any other SSL connection and
 proxy it, meaning decrypt it, do whatever they want to with it, and then re-encrypt it,
 essentially breaking the security completely at the border.
 I wouldn't have thought that. I would have thought that once you've established that
 you're establishing a connection with your bank directly.
 Well, that's the problem. In the same way that certificate authorities can be installed
 on browsers, which is what authenticates certificates, it's possible for a local certificate to
 be created. Now, users will generally see some notice of that, but that can be suppressed
 in browser configuration also, making this thing pretty transparent. So it is something
 that corporations, some corporations do, and if you're really concerned about not having
 anyone able to sniff your traffic, you need to make sure that's not being done.
 Wow. But again, you can check the certificate in your browser, and it will tell you who's
 certificate you've got, and that will prove it.
 Exactly.
 Exactly. Who is sending your data?
 Precisely.
 I don't have to think about that from now. Is that still a common technique is using a
 proxy server at a corporate environment?
 Actually, I think it's an increasingly common, as opposed to decreasingly common practice.
 Although not necessarily for secure traffic, generally it's for non-secured stuff. But
 we are seeing as security concerns and spyware and malware concerns increase, there is an
 interest in filtering all traffic, even that which is secure.
 Wow. James, from London was wondering, in your discussion, last discussion, you talked
 extensively about blocking inbound access to ports using stealth and net techniques. But
 what about blocking outbound ports? Is it necessary for personal or business users to
 block all outbound port access and only open up the ports required?
 Well, of course, this is the great question. This is the sort of the issue of do I need
 an additional personal firewall beyond having just a net router, or beyond having the personal
 firewall that's now built into and turned on by default in Windows XP after installing
 Service Pack 2? I mean, it's a good question. Neither you nor I run with them, Leo. But
 on the other hand, it was during beta testing of the very first version of Zonalarm, which
 offered outbound port blocking, which is to say application level port blocking, that
 I discovered the very first piece of spyware on my machine and coined the term spyware.
 So without me, it wouldn't have seen that. I would have never known that there was something
 in my system, phoning home. And of course, Microsoft has been in the news recently because
 their Windows genuine advantage program has been caught phoning home daily, despite the
 fact that they did not acknowledge that that was going on in their EULA and they're now
 running backwards a little bit and apologizing and saying they're going to change it and
 coming up with strange justifications for doing so.
 Many people like the ability to know exactly what programs are communicating over the net.
 Other people find it makes their computer too noisy. It's popping up and asking permission
 and so forth all the time, although that kind of facility can be trained. So I think it's
 really a matter of personal preference. Is it better for your security to run that kind
 of software, which is going to give you outbound control? I think you do you have to say yes,
 it's better. But as always, there's a trade off for more security comes more responsibility,
 more of your involvement in managing what your computer is doing. Many people like doing
 it. So I would say maybe give it a try, you know, use I would say a lightweight firewall.
 You know, the semantic and McAfee products, even zonal arm, unfortunately, has just become
 so big and so kitchen sink oriented trying to do so much for you that, you know, it's
 a it imposes a burden on your system. In fact, it's funny that I mentioned Greg who does
 my tech support who who remotely administers a client here in Orange County. He upgraded
 them to a to a newer version of McAfee, which broke the function of one of their systems
 because it was an older computer that just no longer had enough power to run the antivirus
 updates in addition to what the other stuff it was doing. So the only change he made was
 updating to a newer version of McAfee. And finally, it was like the final straw. So,
 you know, firewalls like Kerrio, which is now owned by Alex Echleberry's company Sunbelt
 software. Kerrio is a great lightweight firewall. And really, if I were to recommend one, that's
 the one I now recommend, because it's just it's smaller and and and tinier. I would
 say anyway, but the point is, if you're interested in trying outbound blocking, get a good outbound
 blocking firewall like Kerrio and see how it feels. See what you think. You if you like
 the control, then it does give you more security.
 Let me ask you this. Are there any hardware routers that do this? I mean, that might be
 a better way to go. It's a difficult thing to do from a hardware router standpoint, not
 as we know by default, allows everything outbound. The problem is that as soon as you're outside
 of the computer, when you're in an external router, there's no way for it to know what
 application generated the traffic. So you certainly could block all kinds of ports, but
 then basically you're shutting down services. But on the other hand, I mean, it's it's not
 a bad idea. The classic, the classic corporate firewall of yesteryear did not allow traffic,
 for example, to remote servers other than those running on 80 and 443, maybe FTP on port
 21. And then it was smart about about handling FTP's reverse connection. So you certainly
 could run a more traditional firewall, but then all the many other things that that most
 people are now used to using and wanting to use, you know, Skype and peer to peer. And
 you know, many of these fancy services that we have would not function unless you started
 then opening ports to their remote servers over the ports they want to use. And many
 of these are dynamic and changing and configured on the fly. So unfortunately, if you were
 to try that, you'd end up, you know, either having to open up so many ports that you really
 no longer had any security, or, or you could still have a case, for example, where malware
 was deliberately using port 80 in order to pretend to be a web browser, thus it would
 go right out through an external firewall. And you wouldn't know that it was something
 not your browser pretending to be a browser using your your existing internet connection.
 So so the real advantage of the of the program running in the computer is it's able to backtrack
 through the computer, figure out which program is doing the communication. And then go in
 fact, we have a question sort of about that that we'll be dealing with a little bit later
 in the show. Very good. Very good. All right. Manics of Canberra, Austria, Australia, I'm
 sorry, has been a little difference here has been thinking about something he calls VM surfing.
 I was just listening to the episode of Spy Awareness and I was just wondering, is using
 virtual PC, something like a VMware workstation virtual PC is a Microsoft product, but yeah,
 a virtual PC, any one of them, right? VMware's another one, of course, for browsing high risk
 sites any safer, actually, I'm interested too, because I'm using now the parallels workstation
 on my MacBook to run Windows, because even if you get infected, he says it's just going
 to affect the virtual PC and not the main system, right? Or can, and this is the big can question,
 the main system be infected through the virtualized system.
 That's a great question. And in fact, we will be, it's on my slate of things that we're
 going to devote an entire episode to. This notion of VM surfing is a question that comes
 up from time to time. VMware was really the first high profile company to offer this notion
 of virtualizing your computer. I am an owner of a current copy of the VMware workstation
 system, and I've used it, for example, to set up multiple virtual machines when I wanted
 to test many different personal firewalls. You know, I mean, like, I have nine or ten
 of them each installed in their own virtual machine, and I can jump around between them
 much more easily than having to install and uninstall them. The whole concept is that
 it creates a truly secure sandbox, basically a virtual computer that cannot modify its
 external environment. It actually is a very safe means for surfing. The problem is it's
 not nearly as quick, easy, and transparent as firing up your web browser and doing something.
 So it can't then cross the boundary between the virtualized hard drive and your real hard
 drive. When done correctly, and we're assuming it's done correctly, that's true. It cannot
 sometimes shared files, you can write to the other hard drive. Yes, it is. And that's
 really what I mean about when done correctly. If you can do any of that, that's not good.
 For example, they, they, VMware specifically supports the notion of a local network among
 the machines and file sharing. You can actually use Windows file sharing to bridge your virtual
 machines together, in which case you're able to see each other. And there are all kinds
 of ways to, to break the containment that a virtual machine offers. But, but there are
 some exciting things happening specifically in the world of VM surfing where for example,
 VMware now makes a free player. And people have put together Linux's that are pre-configured
 with browsers ready to run where you can run one of these Linux VMs, a virtual machine
 in the free VMware download to, to go a certain distance towards creating an enclosure that
 is absolutely safe to surf in. And that's, I mean, enough of this is happening that we're
 going to do at least an episode on this to talk about exactly how these things work and
 which one we recommend as like the easiest to use most bulletproof solution for people
 who want to explore this. Well, and in fact, I, you know, I just started doing this on my
 Mac. But now of course, in this case, I have shared folders, it can read the drive, local
 drive. So it's probably a little risky. But on the other hand, since it's a Mac, it's
 not likely to cross pollinate from a PC. So I probably have a pretty secure. Yeah. Yep.
 And you know, it's funny, given enough memory, it actually runs pretty quickly and launches
 pretty quickly. So it might actually be a good, good. Well, yeah, Microsoft is promoting
 this in, you know, they purchased their technology. I can't remember from home, but somebody else
 and they call it virtual PC. Right. They're suggesting that for reasons I don't fully
 understand that their normal server software won't completely use all the resources of
 a hardware server. So you're supposed to now run the server edition of virtual PC to run
 multiple virtual servers in a single server. And it's like, okay, whatever. It just seems
 loony to me, but it's not too much of a burden though, because it is running on a PC at least
 doesn't have to do a translation or anything like that. Yeah, the purist in me wonders,
 you know, how you're not going to have an additional layer of something going on context,
 switching and virtual machine switching back and forth. I mean, apparently, something
 about the architecture that they're normally using doesn't let them saturate the hardware
 resources of a server. And this is supposed to be a way to like, do a better job of just,
 you know, really taxing your, your hardware better, so one, one thing I guess is that
 there, there is hardware support for hardware virtualization in the new Intel chip. So that's,
 one of the reasons I think people have gotten all excited about this, because at least it's
 supported in hardware now. Actually, it's been there since the 386. Oh, it has. Yeah. I mean,
 there has been this notion of VMs, you know, the old DPMI that we had back in DOS that there's
 somehow promoting this Intel somehow promoting this new virtualization technology. So they must
 be doing something different. Maybe not. They want a new logo. They want a new sticker. A sticker
 they can put on this. So DPMI allowed you to do this before. It was, yeah, the, the DOS protected
 mode interface was a context switching me. You remember quarter deck and there. I mean,
 that was all virtualization. Yeah. Right. Hmm. Interesting. Dave Matthews of Richmond VA wonders
 about the alternative Lynxis firmware. We've all maybe you haven't, but certainly been hearing a lot
 about this. He wants to hear your thoughts about the various hacks for Lynxis routers,
 particularly for the WRT 54G, which is a very apparently hackable router and there's open
 WRT. There's a lot of different forms. Are they more secure than what comes on the Lynxis?
 Well, that's a good, it's a great question. I wanted to to respond to it because as you say,
 there is a continual buzz about this idea. We've talked about it. In fact, in the context of
 open VPN, our VPN system of choice, because there are some, there are some opportunities to run an
 open VPN server on a Lynxis backing up a little bit. The idea is that, you know, as we're familiar,
 many of these personal routers, NAT routers, allow you to upgrade their firmware when they're
 typically when they're adding features or fixing bugs. You download the latest firmware and go
 through some process to update the firmware that's burned in the router. Well, Lynxis, it turns out,
 and among other routers, is using Lynx as the core OS in the router and that brought people to say,
 hey, what about putting other Linux configurations into the router, which turns out to be completely
 possible, and it is even sort of quasi supported by some of the router manufacturers. They're not
 that concerned, as long as you don't call them for support, because you bought their hardware,
 they've got their money from you, and it is sort of a more high and advanced thing to do.
 But there are, it is possible to install firmware in this hardware, which is substantially more
 powerful than the much watered down sort of generic feature set that Lynx provides.
 Lynx, or any of these other routers that allow you to do this. Now, the question is,
 are they more secure? That's a great question. When you go off the reservation and
 use some third party software or firmware in your router, you're certainly taking responsibility
 away from the manufacturer about what this thing is going to do. With responsibility comes power,
 also comes, of course, the opportunity for something to go wrong, for you to misconfigure
 something, for you to have these more powerful servers or services running. If then, there was a
 security vulnerability found in them, you might have hackers scanning the net looking for these
 these hacked Lynx routers running a vulnerable version of a service that the base Lynx router
 didn't have. So I mean, it's the standard, okay, you want to do something more fancy,
 you need to take some responsibility for it. And you're trusting what others have done.
 On the other hand, it's all open source. This is all open source technology.
 So it's it's inherently more trustable. So I would say, if you're wanting to do that,
 make sure you're paying attention to and are a member and have joined to whatever security lists
 or bulletin system they have, and that you're you are keeping that firmware up to date,
 because you want to stay ahead of any problems that are found because they could be then exploitable,
 whereas the base generic firmware would be less so. Right, right, right. But I mean, you know,
 for I have a WRT, is that the 54G? 54G, yeah. And I flashed it because I wanted to play around
 with with SIP with VoIP. And you can install a complete SIP system in one of these routers
 and create. Oh, I mean, it's amazing. And I mean, and they've got from, I mean, you know,
 it's really a little Linux, as you say, a little Linux computer that you can do a lot with. I mean,
 it is absolutely running Linux. And there are there are some builds of this that are very feature
 packed. And it's amazing. They're really building tight little systems with all kinds of cool
 additional features. So people could Google open WRP. Excuse me? WRT. Oh, I yeah, yeah, exactly.
 WRT. Yeah, it's the open. What's the stand for? Well, WRT is whatever the Linux calls that router,
 wireless router thing. Yeah, there was some acronym for it. Anyway, yes, Google open WRT.
 And you'll see a lot of stuff. There's a lot of stuff, a lot of resources.
 Wikipedia has an article on it with a good link to the various projects like DDWRT and
 HyperWRT. And right, Svea Soft was one of the early ones that allowed you to create a wireless
 access point that you could charge people for and stuff. That was really cool.
 Hamachi user back to Hamachi, I see Darren Govey of Chirci Suri UK writes,
 "You guys are always saying that universal plug and play is a bad thing. I'm starting
 Australian. I'm sorry, security wise. But the latest beta version of Hamachi includes a feature
 for automatic UP&P and configuration. They claim it poses zero risk and should be left enabled."
 Well, who's right? Gibson or Hamachi? Well, this is a good question. What they say,
 what Hamachi says on their changes page referring to this latest beta is that they've added support
 for automatically configuring required port forwarding rules on home routers via universal
 plug and play. This feature is transparent in a sense that it requires no configuration and
 does not manifest itself in any way other than reduced number of "yellow status peers."
 That's a very easy way to do it. He says the feature, as Alex writes, the feature may be
 turned off completely by using respective option and preferences system. Note, however, that
 Hamachi does not depend on infamous SSDP Windows service and therefore having UP&P feature enabled
 poses zero risk to your system. We encourage everyone to keep this feature enabled as it
 improves overall quality of the communications over Hamachi networks.
 This is a problem. What this really means is that Hamachi is doing what UP&P allows,
 which is it's configuring your router behind your back to open a static port
 inbound into your router. The reason this is done is that otherwise, Alex's servers have to be a
 bridge between your connections. Alex doesn't want his servers to be a bridge between your
 connections. This exactly discusses the natural traversal issue we were talking about before.
 Alex does a great job with Hamachi of doing natural traversal bridging two users both behind
 NAT, except when they have a non-peer-friendly NAT router, again, exactly as we were talking
 about in the last couple of weeks. In order to not need Alex's servers, he's opening ports
 through your routers. Well, the problem is there's no security in the router for doing this.
 If the router somehow had a way of communicating to you and saying, hey, somebody's trying to open
 a port through me, should I allow this to happen, then it would be acceptable because there'd be
 a dialogue and you would know what was going on. In Mark Thompson of Analog X's research,
 on the routers he's seen, you can't even tell this is going on in the user interface. So you can't
 bring up the router's web page and see that there's been this kind of reconfiguration. It's all
 transparent, which is an additional bad idea. Now, the security risk is that in the same way
 that Hamachi without asking or being able to or the router being able to get confirmation from you,
 in the same way that Hamachi is able to do this, anything else can. So it's a perfect example of
 how software behind your back can be bringing down the security of your router. So I still say
 it's a bad idea. The good news is if you disable universal plug and play in your router,
 then Hamachi, like anybody else, will not be able to do this. The question would then be,
 what do you want to do about these yellow flags, the so-called, you know, we're not able to connect
 you. The paid version of Hamachi, as I understand it, and less things have changed, and I haven't
 looked at it recently, the paid version does allow you to use Alex's servers as an intermediary.
 If you're behind, if you have a problem with your Nat routers not allowing this kind of connection,
 the better solution, and this is what I have done with Hamachi, because remember, I have a
 Nat peer-to-peer, traversal, unfriendly router, is just to establish your own static port forwarding.
 You can tell Hamachi in the user interface to use a statically forwarded port. There's like a
 great, I think he calls it a magic number or something on the UI. What that actually is,
 is static port forwarding. So make up a port, I think it has one, two, three, four or something
 in the field by default. Don't use that, make up your own port number, choose something between
 1024 and 65535, put that into Hamachi, then on your router, go there, and instead of turning on
 universal plug and play, which you should disable for security sake, instead simply set up a statically
 forwarded port using that port into your computer's IP. That gives you the same capability of not
 having Hamachi give you a yellow flag on users. It still allows you to connect directly. There's
 the minor security problem, which there's no way to avoid of that port now being opened,
 but it's a high-numbered port. It's only going to be coming into Hamachi, and as far as we know,
 there are no security problems with doing so. Moving along to question seven.
 A sharp listener, Brian Hogan in Budapest. Wow, we have listeners everywhere. It's so great.
 Had this tip to share regarding that traversal. Brian says, "You are saying that it's not easy
 for a person using Skype to determine if they have a direct connection to the party they're
 calling. So here's how he suggests doing it." Both parties check their public IP address by
 going to a site like, what is my IP address.com or my favorite?
 Actually, grc.com will do that for you too. "IPchicken.com" will do it. Using the chat feature of Skype,
 both parties tell each other what their own real IP address is. Then you open a command prompt,
 okay? You start to lose me here, and you run netstat-nb in Linux BNP. Netstat command is
 available in Windows, Linux, pretty much any operating system. This will show the IP addresses
 you're connected to in the programs using these connections, and so you'll see if Skype is in
 fact using the real IP address. If it is, you have a direct connection. Comments.
 Unfortunately, that doesn't work. It would work if we were using TCP connections,
 but Skype uses UDP. Something like IPchicken or what is my IP address or even grc's not going to
 tell you what the UDP addresses you. Precisely. In fact, you and I have a Skype connection
 right now directly between us, and just for the heck of it, I did a netstat and looked,
 and there is no sign anywhere that I'm directly connected to you over UDP. We do have a TCP connection,
 but that's a whole different kettle of fish. That's over the audio is going over.
 Exactly. But netstat can show UDP connections. You're just saying it doesn't show it up.
 The problem is UDP is not connections. UDP is just packets. That's the problem. TCP connections
 you can see. In fact, I want to put this in because we're going to talk about in a whole episode to
 netstat and other connection monitoring programs. There are a number of free ones, and they're
 relatively easy to use once you know what the information is, and they can be very useful
 for giving you some sense for what's going on in your computer right at this very moment.
 Well, that makes a lot of sense. It's a stateless connection, so you don't have any information.
 Yes. You're able to see that something in your computer is listening on a specific UDP port,
 and in XP, that NB command will tell you what the application is. That's a new feature in XP
 under Windows 2000, which I'm still using. I use netstat An to give me up myself a simplified list,
 but it won't tell you which application has anchored the endpoint. There are some freeware,
 our friends over at SIS internals have a great little program for people who want to go poke around
 and experiment with this that will allow you to see what activity you actually have in real time,
 and also which programs are the endpoints that are on those communications. So it is possible
 to do it. Netstat won't do it, and in fact, you would only see that Skype was listening for UDP.
 I haven't looked actually to see what Skype would show us, but we'll certainly cross that bridge.
 Right. Kay Hayes of Richmond, Kentucky wants clearer VoIP. Who doesn't?
 And asks, "I have VoIP serviced through packet 8, which is actually a very good service.
 I've had a few blurps, hisses, and dead spots during calls here and there,
 which may be caused by my network setup. Some people in packet 8's forum suggest putting
 the phone adapter in the DMZ of the router. Is that safe?"
 It's an interesting idea. The phone adapter, I guess it's a piece of hardware, which is
 running. I have a packet 8 phone I can fill you in on that as you say. It's like a Vonage
 adapter or any other adapter. And it turns out that because of the problems people have being
 behind NAT, this is standard advice. In fact, I've run across several times where the support
 people and the official configuration suggests that you put your VoIP device in your router's DMZ.
 That is to say, any unsolicited packets coming at your router will be forwarded to the IP
 of your VoIP phone that allows it essentially to accept incoming connections from the outside world.
 It's relatively safe. I mean, it's a better idea to get a second IP and if you can, if it's practical
 to put a switch or a hub in front of your router, put your phone outside of your router, that is
 upstream of your router, and then leave your router configured tightly without a DMZ.
 I mean, the phone isn't going to, even if the phone's attacked, is it dumb beast? There's not much you
 can do to it. Does a DMZ somehow make the network inside the protection less more vulnerable?
 It probably doesn't. It does mean that unsolicited traffic is coming into your network,
 although since there is no ability for any sort of ARP games to be played remotely,
 ARP won't cross the router's boundary and then just isn't being sent by your ISP across
 from external sources. I think you're really pretty safe.
 Generally, Vonage recommends putting its terminal adapter, its voice adapter,
 outside your router and passing through to your router, because all of these have a pass through.
 They say it's because they can't do quality, and this is interesting. They can't do quality
 of service adjustments if the voice adapter is inside the router.
 That probably makes sense, yes. Right.
 So it may be, in fact, you do get better results. I don't know what packet aids recommendation is.
 In both, I use Vonage and packet aid. In both cases, I put them inside the router,
 but you're right. You do get occasional interruptions, so I don't know if that would be any better
 if we're bare on the network. Al Pitchert of Wildemar, California, wonders, can a virus damage a CPU?
 There was an interesting question because there are, well, first of all, it brings up the interesting
 question about whether the virus would want to damage the CPU. As we know, the new game is to
 acquire computers as opposed to just infect them for the fun of infecting them or to destroy them.
 It's, you know, through the years, we've always remarked those of us who are focused on security,
 that viruses have not been more damaging than they have been. I mean, you've got code running
 in your machine that could do anything. Most of the time, it just, you know, tries to propagate
 and replicate itself and tries to live rather than destroying the machine on which it's living.
 Now, there have been some notable exceptions. The Chernobyl virus, also known as the C-I-H virus,
 was something that was nasty. It didn't damage the CPU, but it did two things that were certainly
 damaging. It erased the first megabyte of hard drives it had access to, which was certainly
 disconcerting for people who had data on their drives. And the other thing it did was it flashed
 the BIOS with garbage, which destroyed your BIOS. That's mean. Yeah, and so it was really a problem.
 BIOS's, you know, which can be reflashed will allow themselves by software, of course, to be destroyed.
 The other possibility is that hard drives can have security features which can be engaged and
 enabled and locked. And again, that can cause problems for people, but what we haven't really
 seen that problem. Now, the CPU itself, so far, we have no technology that would allow a CPU
 to be changed inherently. There's been some talk about, you know, softer hardware on CPUs, but
 that hasn't happened yet. So no, there's no way for CPU to be damaged. I mean, you could imagine some
 strange things like maybe talking to the BIOS and changing the CPU speed or voltage and things,
 because of course, a lot of that is under control of software now. But that hasn't been done. And
 again, it wouldn't damage the CPU. It might just cause your system to hang. But in general,
 viruses are not wanting to be destructive that way because they're wanting to take over people's
 computers and use them for sending spam, for launching denial of service attacks on other people.
 Basically, they are wanting to use your machine as a resource and an asset not to destroy it.
 So if we're Sherlock Holmes talking, you'd say, no, Watson, that is neither means nor motive.
 You can you can rest assured you're safe. Well, actually, I guess there is means because
 any virus could be, for example, deleting files that in fact, you know, hurt your CPU. Couldn't hurt
 your CPU. We don't know any way to do that. And while I'm on the topic, though, it is worth
 mentioning that we do have these new extortion viruses now, which are encrypting your files.
 Yes. And then holding you ransom, I think it's it's it's very clever. I don't want to give any
 credit to the people who came up with this because it's a, you know, it's certain laws in the in
 the plan since you have to somehow get the money to these people. I think that of course is that
 of course is the glitch. But but but what I okay, I'll say admire what I admire about this from a
 cleverness standpoint is that if a virus destroyed the contents of your drive, well, it's hurt everybody.
 If it encrypts your drive, now, of course, this whole scenario for those who don't know is that
 the virus encrypts your drive, then tries to extort money from you in order to decrypt it.
 And so it's like, well, that's an, you know, an interesting scam that has has surfaced in the
 last few months. And but as you say, Leo, it's difficult for these people not to immediately get
 caught because they need somehow to receive money. Raphael Wolf of Warsaw, Indiana has just heard
 about firewalking. Can you talk about firewalking, please? He says, I've just stumbled on to this.
 Apparently the term has been around for 10 years or so. As I understand it, although I'm not sure I do,
 the idea is to keep pinging IP addresses until you reach a firewall, then use different tools to
 ping through the firewall. Is it still possible today with net? In other words, you look for firewalls
 and then exploit holes in them. Yeah, it's an interesting, it's an interesting idea. We've talked
 about when we covered how the internet works, we talked about this, this, the notion of using a
 trace route to determine the path your packets take. And the way trace route works is it deliberately
 sets short TTLs, that is to say the time to live in the packet. And as we'll remember from that
 podcast, those who haven't heard that may want to listen to it because it was actually a fun series,
 we talked about how the internet works, that the time to live is not measured in time. It's actually
 measured in hops. As you move from one router to the next, each router decrements the TTL, the time
 to live in the packet, when that hits zero, the router will not forward the packet further.
 Instead, it sends back a message to the sender saying, sorry, for whatever reason, this packet
 expired on the internet prior to reaching its destination. So what firewalking does, it's an
 attempt to find some location on the internet or in your path between you and a remote location,
 anywhere between you and a remote machine, find where there's a filtering going on. And what happens
 is, rather than using ICMP packets, those standard sort of plumbing packets of the internet, which is
 what a ping is, rather than using an ICMP packet with short TTLs, firewalking uses protocol carrying
 packets like TCP or UDP, and emits them with shorter TTLs in order to find the location where
 something is blocking that protocol. So for example, if you were able to get the protocol past a firewall
 by using a longer TTL, you would then walk that TTL backwards until you found something that was
 blocking it. And so for example, by sending packets aimed at different ports with long TTLs,
 you might find that they were both being blocked at some point, and then you're able to,
 by adjusting the time to live, you can determine where there's a difference in there being sent
 back, which allows you to determine where along the path something is blocking it. That gives you,
 essentially, it gives you the IP address of the device, which is doing the filtering,
 which you can then presumably use other tools to attack. So it's something that, you know,
 it's like deep hacker firewall technology that isn't really apropos today because
 net routers are not vulnerable to any of these kinds of exploits. They're more in the older days
 where devices, for example, might have a known vulnerability. You might be running an old Cisco
 firewall on how to known vulnerability. And there was a way to like locate that and then exploit it
 once you were able to get its IP. Interesting. So you don't just don't see it very often anymore.
 Yeah. Yeah. They're radically possible, I guess. Well, yes, still, still there. And you know,
 I liked it. And I wanted to answer the question because it's sort of cool leveraging of the way
 the internet works. And it represents that very cleverness that we've seen from from from hackers
 of yesteryear. Marcus Kasmerikan. Can I Alaska wants better Skype connections?
 Does it? Here we are again. Okay. Now that I've been listening from the beginning,
 you said that you made Skype operate over a certain port. I have it on a specific port,
 but is there anything more I need to do to make it work like you guys in the podcast? We get such
 great audio on Skype. Yeah, we do. And the reason is we have done one thing more. I wanted to answer
 Marcus's question because lots of people are writing asking how to get quality like you and I
 have with Skype Leo. And so you have to do two things. He's done one. He's told Skype to use a
 specific port. The second thing you have to do is, and we refer to this earlier, is called port
 forwarding. There's tons of information on the net about port forwarding. So there's, and I'm sure
 even on the Skype site, if you looked at something about how to configure Skype for port forwarding
 and also your net router, what you have to do is log on to your net router, typically through a
 web page and set it up so that it forwards that port, which you have told Skype to use,
 through to the IP address, the private IP address, that that computer running Skype is on. It'll
 probably be 192.168.0.1, or .1.1, or something like that. And the idea being then that that allows
 Skype to make the same kind of direct machine-to-machine connection that Leo and I use. And that's all
 there is to it. So tell Skype to use the static port, a fixed port number, and then send that port
 number through your net router to your machine. It can be any number above 1024. And in my case,
 I have, let's say, this is actually not the port I use, but let's say I use 1-1-1-1,
 easy to remember 5-1s. I've gone into port forwarding of my links, I say Skype, 1-1-1-1-1,
 2-1-1-1-1, and protocol is UDP, right? And then I just say the IP address of my machine that we use,
 which I don't know what looks like I have it wrong. I come to think of it.
 So I may, but does it now have to be done on both sides or just one side?
 It really only needs to be done on one side, but both sides is better. I mean,
 basically you got somebody you're skyping to, you'd like to both set yourselves up this way,
 you're going to get a super clean connection, and you'd also get the advantage that anyone
 else you connect to who is not all configuration happy, you'd be able to get a direct connection
 with them as well. Yeah, so I'm going to now port forward it from this to proper machine,
 which is 205. And as you found, when you did this experiment before Leo, it really did make a
 difference for you. Yeah, we were having trouble with, you know, one of the other thing that you
 don't have any control over is how much upstream bandwidth you have, and Steve's got a lot of
 upstream bandwidth, and I have a business class DSL. So we're dealing with it, I don't know,
 I think mine's at least 386 or 384 upstream. And I've got a pair of T1s. You've got some metrics,
 so you're, you've got a lot, you've got a megabit and more. So, and that's what matters,
 right? Not the downstream, so much as the upstream. Well, of course, if it,
 my upstream, my upstream is your downstream. So you're upstream and my downstream are what matter.
 Exactly. Yeah. And so there's not much people can do about that necessarily.
 Well, for instance, with Dicty Bartolo, who has a standard DSL simply by doing what we just
 described, I've really improved the quality of the calls to his system. That is cool. And see,
 I had already done it on my end, demonstrating the fact that that your router was, that your
 router was not being peer to peer friendly, but mine was by virtue of static port forwarding. So,
 now you've made yours so. So only one router in a connection between two needs to do this.
 So it doesn't have to be done at each end. Only one end will allow you to have a direct
 connection. But if you're doing it, you know, in just, just in general, you're going to get
 better Skype connections with people if you take the time to do this. And again, it's,
 it's better to do it manually than to turn on universal plug and play and have anything do it
 for you because you're then opening yourself up to anything else that gets into your system.
 One more question. Steve Gilliam of Pinehurst, North Carolina,
 wonders about email reliability. He says you've explained that plain text email can be intercepted
 red and altered nefariously in transit. In fact, trivially done. So yeah, I'm wondering what
 percentage of email is delivered successfully in a timely manner, assuming that both email
 addresses are valid. And principal mode should be 100% of practice. How much email is dropped
 by the Internet? Do we know? Well, I liked this because it opens a discussion about the protocol
 reliability and other things. For example, Leo, when I, when I sent these questions to you,
 you didn't see them at first. No, because it went to the spam folder.
 Exactly. I think maybe the most are dropped by spam filters.
 Yes. In fact, in fact, that's really the number one cause now. I do a lot of e-commerce shopping
 and I'm seeing more and more a warning and a caution about making sure that they're wanting
 to send me a receipt and they don't want my receipt to the receipt bound for me to get blocked by
 anything I may have defending my borders against spam. So you'll see more and more e-commerce sites
 saying, please make sure to allow email from, you know, bought my cookies here dot com,
 whatever. It's a real problem. I think, I think frankly, the reliability of email is going to
 way downhill and it has mostly to spam. Well, in fact, thanks entirely to spam.
 The cool thing is that the protocol itself, and this is what I really wanted to address,
 was that the protocol itself is absolutely reliable. If it weren't for things that are
 deliberately blocking email, the pop and i-map and SMTP protocols, basically it's SMTP that is the
 mail server to mail server system, it is an affirmative delivery technology. There is technology
 for retrying extensively, for finding another server that can accept your mail. If your inbox
 is full, it'll fall back to a secondary server and that server called, you know, backup MX servers
 will try to forward the mail. Basically, I mean, it's a phenomenally reliable system,
 which, as we've just said, has been unfortunately now badly broken by the fact that spam has actually
 has used that reliability or abused that reliability to such a degree.
 Sad, isn't it? I just read article and security focusing. Email's dead. It's not reliable,
 it's not usable. Well, I can't use it myself. You know, I've got a mailing list. We're still
 accepting subscribers because I've got, I don't have to talk to you about this, Leo. I want to do
 one last mailing when I announce a replacement technology myself. But we've got, I'm just looking
 at the number here, 786,000 subscribers. And that's the point. What I'm going to do is I'm going to
 sort the list by recency and so, you know, send mail to the people until it just bogs down too much.
 But there's no way. I mean, it's more than a three quarters of a million email addresses from
 people who have signed up a GRC over the years. And I know that the older ones are going to be
 dead. But the problem is, the moment I start generating email at any, at any appreciable rate,
 all kinds of red flags and alarms are going to go off all over the net. And I will be shut out
 of AOL and Earthlink and, I mean, and, you know, major ISPs who will immediately flag me as a spammer.
 And so I'm just going to have to trickle this mail out at a very slow pace and take my lumps.
 I want to do one final mailing to people. That's my plan. It'll be an interesting experiment to see
 how well I'm able to do. Steve is banned for it. Oh, and I'm not doing it from GRC. I'm going to
 I'm doing it from a completely disjoint IP range. And I have I have the domain grcmail.com
 because I don't want it in any way contaminate my ability to send email receipts to spin rights
 customers. Unfortunately, that IP address will then be contaminated for years to come. I don't
 know what the half life is of black holes, but it's going to be useless for a long time to come.
 It really will be it's too bad. It really is too bad. Steve, we've answered all 12. Perfect,
 and we had a nice hour show. Good job. And, you know, speaking of spam filtering and security,
 I do want to mention our sponsor, a staro corporation makers of the great staro security gateway.
 If you're small or medium business network needs superior protection from spam, from viruses,
 from hackers, as well as a complete VPN, and intrusion protection and content filtering,
 and an industrial strength firewall, I mean, this really does it all in a single easy to use,
 high performance appliance, you want to contact a staro. It's www dot a s t a r o dot com, or you
 can call 877 the number four a s t a r o toll free to schedule a free trial of a staro security
 gateway appliance in your business. And of course, the home version is still available for download
 for free at a s t, you know, it is worth mentioning probably that that this thing is not just a static
 box that sits there, but that what you get when you subscribe, whether you're a home user or a
 corporate user, is you get them remotely managing and updating this with latest virus and spyware
 signatures and everything. So I mean, it's it's the the rough equivalent is running some anti spyware
 stuff on your own computer, where you've got it continually phoning home in order to check for
 updates and and and new stuff. And of course, what what what what this thing does is it's an
 appliance that protects your entire network, but it's not just it doesn't sit there and get old,
 it's being continually renewed and and and be maintained current. I mean, it's a great solution.
 We're going to start having you do the commercial. We are very happy. It's really nice to have a
 sponsor that we really can get behind it. It's cool technology. And I've been wanting to explain
 for for for some months now that you know that that's what this is that mean that it is remotely
 managed and updated and and continually maintained for you. Very good. Steve, we we've wrapped this
 guy up this puppy with a string and a bow and everything. But we'll be back next week to talk
 more about security, the internet, your computer. I love doing this show. I'm so glad that we found
 such a big audience, such a such a great bunch of people. We do thank our friends at America online
 for providing us with the bandwidth as always. And if you want to know more about the things we
 talked about, go to steves website grc.com slash security now. That's where you'll find 16 kilobit
 versions for the bandwidth impaired. And of course, thanks to Elaine, transcriptions of every
 episode. So you can read them as well as listen to them. And sometimes with the more complicated
 subjects, that's a real boon. I don't know how Elaine does it. We also want to remind you the
 grc.com is the home to spin right, which is the world's best file maintenance hard drive maintenance
 and a recovery utility. There is nothing better. You can find out more about spin right by visiting
 spin right info dot com. That's where you'll find a whole bunch of great testimonials.
 Actually, spin right dot info. I'm sorry, spin right dot info. Don't go. I don't know what you
 get if you go to the other place. Well, yeah. And you know, Leo, I was thinking about this. It
 really is it is spin rights users and owners that support the grc and this podcast. That's true.
 It's the people who are who are buying spin right and using it to keep their drives in good health
 and to repair damage. I mean, they're they're my sponsors. Yeah, if Steve would have to have a
 job if it weren't for spin right. So we're glad that you have the time to do both spin right and
 this podcast. We really appreciate it. And all the great stuff you're doing. I know your cookie,
 your third party cookie stuff is coming along. I just looked at the beta page of that. That's
 exciting. I'm really excited and I'm I'm adding a menuing to the grc site. So people will be able
 to find all the stuff. So Steve, how how 21st century? Yeah. Well, and be well, because I want to
 do the whole new third party cookie stuff. And of course, I've still got the open VPN project to
 get wrapped up. And that is not give we have not given up on that. Nope. It's going to happen.
 But it's funny, as I think about adding this content, it's like, okay, how's anyone going to
 find it? Because my home page is kind of a mess. You need some, you know, I mean, yeah, we need
 navigation. We want to get Amber and her team to help you if you need some help. But no, I got,
 you know, me, I want to roll up myself. I would just I want no JavaScript, no scripting at all.
 I'm, you know, I'm learning how CSS works. And boy, what a nightmare that is.
 Oh, Steve, Steve, Steve. Maybe we'll do a story on that sometime. Let's go have something soon.
 Steve gives it always a pleasure. Have a great week. And we'll talk to you next Thursday.
 Thanks, Leo.
 On security.
