 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by AOL Radio at AOL.com/podcasting.
 This is Security Now with Steve Gibson, episode 50 for July 27th, 2006.
 Introduction to virtualization.
 Security Now is brought to you by Astarro, makers of the Astarro Security Gateway
 on the web at www.a-s-t-a-r-o.com
 We're hitting the half-century mark, ladies and gentlemen, episode 50 of Security Now.
 Steve Gibson, it's good to have you over again.
 Can you believe it? We've made the 50 episodes.
 Yeah, I mean, it doesn't feel like a year ago that we began.
 No, is it exactly? Did we take any time off?
 Nope. No, so we still have two weeks to go for our anniversary.
 Yep. It is hard to believe.
 And as you mentioned several times, we weren't sure there was enough material.
 Little did we know there's plenty of material.
 Yeah, there is. Well, and we get so many great feedback from our users.
 I've got questions coming out my ears.
 In fact, at some point, I'm feeling like we're falling behind with our Q&A stuff.
 We may just switch to a...
 And we get such great feedback from the Q&A episodes.
 People really enjoy the breadth of topics that we cover in one hour
 or how long it ends up being.
 So we may end up just do maybe switch from mod 4 to mod 1 for a while
 and do some catch up. Yeah, it's a great idea.
 Speaking of emails, we got one from Randall Schwartz,
 who is a good friend, the author of Learning Pearl, the Geek Cruise Guy,
 and he listens to the show avidly.
 And because he's very active in the security community,
 he's kind of a great guy to have a listen and get his notes to us.
 And he made a note, which is something I had never heard of,
 but he just wanted to point it out is that, you know, I was saying that
 IP reports above 1024
 were non-canonical.
 1024 and below were the kind of traditionally accepted reports.
 He said, actually, it's from 1,000 to 1,024 is also considered.
 What did he say?
 Because some people use decimal, some people use binary.
 You have to be careful.
 It sounds like it was the classic difference between a K.
 Is a K actually 1,000 or is it, you know, a binary K at 1024?
 So if you want to use a canonical port, if you want to use an official port,
 the safest procedure is not to use something between 1,000 and 1,024,
 but to use something below 1,000.
 Then you're sure that everybody will see that as a canonical port?
 Yeah, I can definitely, I mean, definitely tell you that my experience has been 1024.
 That's where it's at 1024 that machines begin to assign ephemeral ports.
 The ones that clients are generally being given.
 It may be some older or oddball software, but it's just something to be aware of.
 I'm glad Randall's listening because he keeps us honest.
 So what are we covering this week, Mr. G?
 Well, this is the beginning of a multi-week series on virtual machine technology.
 VM, virtual machine.
 That's very hot right now because Intel's touting it all their new core chips supported in hardware.
 And of course, but there's program software like VMware has been around for a while.
 Microsoft's own virtual PC uses it, right?
 Yeah, I want to clarify and demystify that.
 What's really interesting is that VM began 40 years ago in 1960.
 IBM had VM 360, which was a virtual machine technology
 for the original IBM 360 machine.
 So this notion of virtual machines is not new.
 In fact, it's old and it was something that big mainframes always could do.
 Well, exactly.
 And then it sort of went away in the 80s and 90s.
 Now we're seeing a resurgence of the technology for very different reasons.
 And as often happens, the capability of our hardware has grown so much
 that things that weren't possible or practical before have now become possible and practical.
 So we've got super fast machines, we've got much more RAM than we used to have in machines,
 and we've got massive hard drives which have enabled this notion of sort of a machine within a machine.
 Why don't you explain what virtualization is?
 There's a reason we're talking about this on security now.
 There's a real security use for this.
 But first of all, what is virtualization?
 Yes, and for that reason I wanted to really lay as I always like to do,
 a firm foundation of definitions and understanding so that we have some jargon that we can refer to
 and that later when I say this really works for security,
 there'll be a reason for understanding why it is that it really works for security
 rather than just going, "Oh, okay, I hope that works."
 The whole notion of virtualization is the idea of some sort of a layer.
 Layers come in many shapes and sizes.
 The most common, perhaps, notion of virtualization is one flavor of it called emulation,
 where you've got, for example, a computer running an emulator,
 which is inherently pretending to be something else.
 In other words, say that you had, well, in fact, I guess the Mac has done this
 when they moved from one chip to another.
 Wasn't there an emulation of one family of chips on another?
 That's exactly right.
 They were able to run the old...
 Well, doing it right now, of course, with the Rosetta technology, which...
 Over on the Intel platform.
 They're emulating the power PC chip.
 Yeah.
 And so that's actually a virtual machine.
 I mean, by definition, it's like a virtual chip.
 The software running, the older Mac, you know, G4G5 power PC software
 doesn't know that it's not being executed by a power PC.
 Now, they've also, in a way, done this with operating systems.
 When they went from OS 9 to OS 10, they were able to continue to support
 OS 9 software by running OS 9 in a machine.
 So it doesn't have to just be emulating another chip.
 It could be emulating another environment, right?
 Well, absolutely.
 And in fact, you may remember the very...
 One of the very earlier popularizations in the PC industry,
 you know, stepping way forward from IBM doing this with VM 360,
 back in the early '60s, there was something called UCSD Pascal.
 Oh, yeah.
 UCSD Pascal was based on what was called a P machine.
 P as in pseudo, a pseudo machine.
 UCSD Pascal compiled...
 It was a Pascal compiler that accepted Pascal source code.
 It compiled it into a virtual machine that never existed.
 Literally, they wrote up a specification for like,
 "Okay, if we had a computer, sort of a pseudo chip
 that executed these instructions, it would be really good
 for just implementing this language, this Pascal language."
 And actually, there was even a Fortran compiler that compiled
 the same pseudo machine, the same P code, the same P machine.
 And so the idea was, if you wanted to run UCSD Pascal
 on an Apple II, you would create a P machine interpreter.
 You would create an interpreter, an emulator, for this virtual chip
 that no one ever actually made.
 And then all the software, that means suddenly all the software
 that had been written for this UCSD Pascal was running all at once
 on this new chip only by creating this emulation layer
 or this virtualization layer, this virtual machine.
 That's how Java works.
 Well, yes, exactly.
 I was just going to say that then there was also fourth.
 Fourth was a Wacky language, which was based on the same sort
 of pseudo machine or P machine technology, which made it very
 easy to port from one chip to another.
 Some microsystems, the Java virtual machine, is the same thing.
 You have a Java runtime.
 What the Java runtime does is it is basically a virtual machine
 that compiled Java code is run against.
 So in that case, the Java virtual machine is interpreting
 the instructions that have been compiled down into the compiled
 Java to do the actual work.
 Unless you think this is old hat, in fact, that's how Pearl VI,
 the next generation of Pearl is being developed.
 They're developing first a virtual machine called Parrot,
 which will run not only Pearl VI, but a variety of other languages.
 And it even goes back to, and I know you remember this, Steve,
 but you'd have to be an old student to remember,
 desk view under DOS, which allowed you to run multiple
 environments at the same time.
 You remember desk view?
 Oh, yeah, and in fact, we talked about it briefly when we were
 talking about memory management, and we're going to be talking
 about that in a few minutes, as a matter of fact.
 But one last example of contemporary virtual machine,
 which certainly Windows users are beginning to see,
 Microsoft initiated a strong move that they call .NET.
 This whole Microsoft .NET framework is a, they created what
 they call a CLI specification, a common language infrastructure.
 And then there's something called the CLR, which is the common
 language runtime, and Microsoft succeeded along with Hewlett-Packard
 and Nintel of getting ECMA and ISO standardization.
 So even now, there is still new technology that is just based
 on software virtualization, software virtual machines that are
 being used for hosting multiple languages.
 And exactly as you said, Leo, the future of Pearl is moving
 in this direction as well.
 That is fascinating.
 And in the past, I think the wrap against things like P code
 and even Java to some extent was that that virtualization slowed
 it down.
 But I think because of hardware support, it's really not much
 of a penalty anymore.
 Well, actually, there are two different, very, two very
 different types of virtualization.
 There is emulation like we were talking about.
 And then there is exactly as you were saying, hardware assisted
 virtualization.
 And that's the key for security because, well, I guess I
 shouldn't say that completely because, of course, Java was
 created to create a secure sandbox so that Java applications,
 because they were being emulated, the code itself is not running
 on the actual hardware.
 It's not actually being executed by the Intel chip.
 We've talked, for example, about how stack overruns are able
 to allow a program's code to be executed by the chip itself.
 Well, in an interpret environment, you're not running on the
 hardware.
 You're like one level removed and your code is being interpreted
 by some other software if it's written correctly.
 That's the Achilles heel in any software based scheme.
 If it's written correctly, we know how difficult it is for that
 simple phrase if it's written correctly to end up being
 actually true in the real world because, in theory, then the
 emulator could prevent any sandboxed code from ever having
 the ability to do anything dangerous.
 In reality, it's very hard to write these things correctly,
 and we end up with software layers and, as we've seen before,
 the opportunity for some sort of trouble.
 So when you say emulation, you were talking about, for instance,
 the Apple emulation of the old G5 processor in Intel.
 Yes.
 For example, one of the things that killed off the UCSD
 Pascal, UCSD Pascal was going strong.
 It was a great solution.
 It was multi-platform.
 I remember using it on the Apple II.
 What came along?
 Some guy named Philippe Kahn.
 And native.
 Exactly.
 Philippe Kahn had turbo, Borland International released
 Turbo Pascal and it just blew UCSD Pascal into history almost
 overnight.
 First of all, it was less expensive.
 It was cool.
 It was blindingly fast.
 Actually, that's the thing that started the big war between
 Philippe and Bill Gates was, you know, Bill was selling
 languages for, I think, like $4.99, $500 at the time, and
 Philippe came along and thumbed his nose at Microsoft and said,
 "Ah, here's a really good Pascal compiler for 40 bucks."
 I loved Turbo Pascal.
 Well, and it was screamingly fast.
 Compiled instantly.
 It compiled to native machine language not to P code,
 which then had to run through a layer of emulation.
 And the reason we're spending so much time talking about this
 is it is critical to understand where the costs of virtual
 machine technology comes in and virtualization.
 Inherently, there's something added, something extra added to
 the system to create this layer of protection, the sandbox,
 the virtualization.
 It has to do more work.
 Yes.
 Well, and it depends upon whether it's really being done in
 and by the hardware or in and by the software.
 What we've talked about so far is all software emulation and
 software virtualization, which is very expensive in terms of
 performance.
 Now, with chips getting faster and memory becoming
 abundant, that's less a problem.
 On the other hand, when you don't have virtualization,
 you're faster.
 Who doesn't want to be faster?
 No matter how fast your chip is, not having something slowing you
 down is always a better thing, which of course is why, you know,
 the Mac apps are rapidly being recompiled into native
 Intel code as the Macintosh switches from the power PC
 platform over to the Intel platform.
 And you're going to get, you know, much better performance
 that way.
 Right.
 Right.
 So, historically, what happened is Intel made some advances to
 their chip set.
 Of course, the original PC was hosted on the 8086, which was sort
 of a 8-bit, 16-bit hybrid chip.
 It had a 16-bit chip set, 16-bit instruction set, but an 8-bit
 bus.
 And whereas the 8088 was 8-bit all the way, the change came
 for the first time with the Intel 8286, which added something
 in the hardware, which radically complicated the chip.
 It went from a small chip that an instruction set that anyone
 could understand to something that began to be really complicated.
 It added the so-called protected mode.
 Protected mode, as opposed to real mode, which was what was
 actually named after the fact, because that's what chips always
 were before.
 So they had no mode.
 They were just there.
 Protected mode adds a whole bunch of hardware to the chip.
 Which begins to create this notion of inter-process isolation,
 rather than all of the programs running in the system sort of
 sharing memory at once.
 Protected mode protected programs from each other.
 It really began to create the notion of a real operating system.
 Remember that DOS was sometimes criticized for just how lame it
 was.
 It was basically just sort of a program loader.
 It was a pile with all these programs running against each other.
 I'm just pissed off that the slashes go the wrong way in DOS.
 That's another problem.
 I'm still doing it wrong.
 I'm never going to shake that bad happen.
 Unix uses forward slashes, and DOS wants backwards slashes
 for reasons no one understood.
 Yeah, well, just to be different, or who knows.
 Anyway, so we really didn't get the hardware we needed from the 286.
 And it wasn't until the 386 came along that Intel added enough
 features to basically create virtual machine technology in the hardware.
 And this was a huge jump for the industry.
 And in fact, that's where we got into memory managers.
 EMM386 and QEMM.
 These things, and in fact, my favorite was Qualitas.
 I can't remember what that one was called.
 Wasn't that QEMM?
 No, that was quarter deck.
 Quarter deck, that's right.
 Quarter deck was QEMM.
 Yeah, I think it was EMM386.
 Yeah, and these would let you use more than 640 kilobytes.
 Of memory, in fact, even more than a megabyte of memory.
 Well, yeah, what happened was machines at the time were having a real problem
 with the 640 meg limit, which is what the PC had.
 You know, it shipped originally with, I think you could get it actually with 16 megabytes.
 Sometimes you would expand it to 64 megabytes, but there was a physical limitation.
 In fact, Bill Gates famously said, and we can't really fault him for this
 because it was so long ago that no one could ever possibly need more than 640 megabytes.
 I have that recording somewhere of memory.
 You know, and in fact, you know, that was in his defense.
 No, I thought the same thing.
 It seemed like a lot at the time.
 Well, you know, and here I am still programming in a semi-language.
 It is a lot.
 They would write, if they would write lean mean code, like you write, it would be.
 But nobody does.
 Well, of course, what happened was machines began to be used for things
 no one ever envisioned them for.
 Huge graphics and of course media and huge spreadsheets
 that just needed more memory.
 The splash screen on most applications takes up more than 640k.
 It does today, right?
 So there were several intermediate stages along the way.
 There was this thing called expanded memory and extended memory
 which used a bank swapping approach where you'd have a card with extra chips on it
 and then you'd programmatically swap that memory in so that it was accessible
 and then you'd swap it out.
 Well, what happened with the 386 was that the hardware was so advanced
 that literally different profiles, different configurations of memory
 could be shown to applications at any given time.
 So the first memory managers were emulators of this EMM, the expanded memory
 and extended memory systems and then they began to grow.
 And as you said before, Leo, there was top view that IBM was working on
 and then there was desk view that quarter deck created
 and basically they were the first people to begin to move toward
 using the 386 chip hardware to create hardware virtual machines.
 386 Max.
 That's the name.
 Yay, that came back to me.
 Yes, Bob Smith at Qualitas.
 And that was the best program.
 We were all QEMM users until 386 Max came out and it was like, "Wow!"
 Well, you're so right.
 In fact, a little bit of an anecdote.
 When Microsoft first came out with Windows, I guess it was 3.1, maybe 3.0
 because we had Windows 2 and then then 3.0.
 The problem was it only ran with Microsoft's own memory manager
 which was built in and it was just crappy.
 It had no good options.
 With 386 to the Max, you were able to fill in from high memory into low.
 There were all these extra features that Bob Smith had put in
 to 386 to the Max.
 And the world loved them.
 So here comes Windows and it's like, "No, you have to use ours."
 And it just didn't, as I said, it just didn't have any of the features
 that we all wanted.
 So I was writing my weekly tech talk column for InfoWorld at the time.
 And I loved what Microsoft had done for Windows 3.0.
 But like the last paragraph in the column where I raved about it,
 I said, "But I can't use it."
 Because it's not compatible with 386 to the Max.
 And that's how I'm ever going to use it.
 So exactly. So who cares?
 The colors are pretty but oh well.
 But next week I'm going to talk about Windows 3 some more.
 So next week I talked about other features and talked about how, you know,
 other cool things, blah, blah, blah.
 But I said at the end of the column, "I'm not going to use it."
 But who cares?
 You know, no one can really use this thing, this new Windows,
 because it won't run on any good memory manager.
 So I got a call after the second column came out
 from a wonderful guy at Microsoft, Brad Silverberg.
 Oh yeah.
 And in fact, he left Microsoft quite a while ago.
 He was originally at Borland and moved over to Microsoft.
 And we had a good relationship.
 So he calls me up and he says, "Steve, would you stop writing
 that Windows is junk unless it runs on some other memory manager?"
 And I said, "Well, but Brad, it is junk."
 Unless it will run on like a real memory manager.
 And he said, "Well, I have Bob Smith here with me in the office."
 Oh.
 He was on speakerphone.
 He said, "Say hello, Bob."
 And I heard Bob said, "Hey, hi, Steve."
 I said, "Oh, my goodness.
 Bob, are you there because of why I think you're there?
 Why I hope you're there?"
 And he said, "Yep."
 He said, "Oh, that's good."
 And I said, "Are they giving you everything you need?"
 Because it was, you know, it's proprietary information.
 They wouldn't tell Bob how to get 386 of the Macs
 to run under Windows.
 And he said, "Yep, I have everything I need."
 And I said, "Oh."
 I said, "Okay, Brad.
 Look, there's one more column in the pipeline already
 that you're really not going to like."
 But I said, "Then I will tell people,
 you've given Bob Smith what he needs,
 and that 386 of the Macs will soon be Windows 3 compatible."
 So that's great.
 So, I mean, those were painful times back then,
 as we were figuring out, you know,
 what mattered and what was important
 and how to make all this stuff work.
 They were good days for geeks because it was something
 you had to figure out.
 And we shared the information.
 Now it's just anybody can use a computer now.
 Okay, so what is it?
 Oh, like the Vorac.
 What is it in the hardware
 that makes this possible?
 What Intel added with the 386 was the ability
 to basically set up a supervisory code somewhere in RAM
 that could get notified under virtually any condition
 that was important.
 Specifically, computers or software running in a computer
 has two fundamental things it can do.
 It can read and write to memory,
 and it can read and write to I/O devices.
 So it's got I/O and it's got memory.
 And what Intel's architecture that began in full
 with the 386 and has continued on,
 and in fact, the thing you mentioned, Leo,
 about them talking about like next-generation stuff,
 they're going further with this
 x86 virtualization technology even beyond what we have today
 in order to sort of go to the last step.
 Because Intel has recognized that virtualization is hot
 and is coming back gangbusters.
 And so they're also looking for some way to make some more money
 because I don't know if you heard.
 They're really getting beat up by AMD.
 Anyway, what they added was the ability to trap
 any attempt by software to access I/O
 and to trap any attempt by software to read and write memory.
 Well, that's a phenomenal thing.
 I mean, it's a huge change in the architecture
 because the software is supposed to be able to read and write memory.
 I mean, in order to do what it does,
 it has to be able to do this.
 And, you know, what good is it unless it can communicate
 with the outside world, which means it needs to be able
 to access and talk to I/O devices.
 So there's a very sophisticated set
 of interception hardware, essentially.
 There's literally a bitmap that represents the I/O addresses
 so that individual I/O addresses can be protected
 and others can be deprotected.
 The way memory is managed is that there are, again,
 complete protections and tables called page tables
 that allow some supervisory process
 to literally control what a less privileged process is able to do.
 And this is all supported by the hardware,
 meaning that there is virtually -- pardon the pun --
 virtually zero overhead with a program running
 within this contained or protected mode environment.
 It is zero?
 I mean, how really?
 Come on, there's some overhead.
 Well, you're saying there's very little overhead.
 Well, there's zero overhead for a program running
 in that mode.
 There's some overhead when you change programs.
 Overall, system-wide.
 Change modes, yes.
 And, in fact, there is also some overhead by --
 if the program in protected mode needs to call down
 for services that are running in the operating system,
 they're called ring transitions in the Intel architecture.
 There are four rings, zero through three,
 and zero being the most highly privileged -- ring three
 being the least privileged.
 And so there are mechanisms that had to be created
 to allow the operating system, you know, the supervisor,
 basically, that has responsibility for everything else.
 It needs to be able to access all of memory
 and access all of the I/O and to contain programs
 that are less privileged.
 The way these are less privileged is they run
 in what's called ring three, which is just an abstraction.
 It's an abstraction in the same way that a port is an abstraction
 of an Internet connection, where it's just sort of --
 you just say this program is running in ring three
 and programs running in ring three have the following
 restrictions placed on them.
 So there is a little bit of overhead switching
 from ring to ring, but because it's done in hardware,
 it's virtually instantaneous.
 Well, yes, it's nothing, nothing like the emulation
 we were talking about originally, where you've got software
 that is executing instructions, you know,
 and figuring out what each instruction does
 and then turning around and doing the equivalent.
 Basically, it allows programs to run at full speed
 until they do something that, not necessarily
 that they shouldn't, but in something that requires
 supervisory oversight.
 So, for example, I mean, a perfect example
 is running an old DOS program.
 I mean, DOS programs, as we know, still run in a window
 in Windows, a so-called DOS box or even that command prompt
 that we were using before.
 The DOS program thinks it is writing to an area of memory,
 you know, technically it's B1000 in hex or B800 in hex.
 There were two pages of -- and regions of memory
 in the old PC, and DOS programs wrote --
 actually physically wrote a byte of data
 into a location that represented a cell on the screen,
 and the display adapter took the contents of that byte,
 which was an ASCII character, 8-bit ASCII character,
 and then displayed the character at that location,
 at the matching location on the screen.
 So, DOS programs just wrote -- we're able to sort of paint the screen
 very quickly with text by directly depositing data
 into this region of memory.
 Okay, well, everything has changed since that.
 You know, we don't have text displays.
 Now we've got bit mapped graphics displays, you know,
 with fonts and font sizes and varying resolutions and all this,
 yet you can still run an old DOS program
 in one of these -- in a DOS box, in a command prompt,
 and it still writes to what it thinks is video memory.
 In this V1000 hex region,
 what happens is the operating system has set up a trap
 so that anything that is written by the application in the DOS box
 is intercepted by the software.
 The software is able to say, "Oh, look, isn't that cute."
 DOS thinks it wants to put an A here.
 And so what the operating system does is turns around,
 figures out where that is within the window in the bit mapped region,
 and it then paints the font character A
 that the user has chosen with color and size and everything else.
 DOS has no idea this is going on.
 All of that is hidden from it.
 It thinks it's still running on an old PC
 with an actual text display, putting text out in the memory.
 When in fact, you know, that's not remotely true anymore.
 We've got graphics accelerators and Nvidia cards with turbo fans on them
 and everything else going on.
 All being hidden thanks to this virtualization technology.
 Yeah.
 Now there's some overhead in doing that kind of thing.
 Yes.
 There's an example where you are mapping from a text display
 into a bitmap display and having to do some work.
 Of course, in this case, our machines are so radically faster--
 Yeah, these dance programs didn't expect anything like that.
 Exactly.
 That the result still looks instantaneous to us.
 So essentially, what we've got today,
 and we're going to build on this next week
 when we talk about how this technology has been leveraged
 and how it can be taken further,
 is we've got an operating system now,
 every operating system that is contemporary.
 I mean, Linux, FreeBSD, the Mac OS, Windows, all of them.
 The first thing they do when they start to boot
 is they switch the chip from its real mode into protected mode.
 Real mode is the way all chips--
 there's one obscure chip somewhere that Intel had.
 It was an embedded chip that just didn't have real mode.
 But all of our chips start life.
 When you turn the power on, they're in the original 8086 emulation,
 you know, real mode.
 And that's what the BIOS uses 16-bit BIOS to get things going.
 It loads the sector from the hard drive into memory,
 execute it, that bootstrap reads some more sectors
 to build up enough code and memory
 as the OS gets going, one of the very first things it does.
 One of the very first things it does is it lays out
 all of the data required by the Intel processor.
 And there's a lot of housekeeping that needs to be done
 to get this system from real mode into protected mode
 because basically it's making a huge change
 in the architecture of the chip on the fly.
 And so it sets all that up, switches the chip into protected mode.
 That's the first time it has access to all the memory in the system.
 You know, it's still limited until then
 to the original one megabyte physical barrier,
 of which only 640 was RAM.
 So as soon as it does that, then it opens up the rest of the system
 and has access, thanks to being 32 bits,
 to the vast amounts of gigabytes of memory,
 and then it loads the rest of the operating system
 and gets itself going.
 So all systems today are running in this mode
 and they are using features of this hardware
 that creates these virtualization,
 that allows processes to be insulated from each other.
 The problem is, as we've seen,
 that insulation between processes has got some holes in it.
 - Permeable. - Yes, it is very permeable.
 As I gave the example a couple weeks ago,
 the very fact that I can start a debugger
 and reach over and stop another application
 and single step it and even inject my own code
 and make changes, that's a problem
 when you talk about security.
 And we talked about with root kit and root kits
 and Trojans that are going down and mucking around
 in the network stack.
 You know, remember that last week you asked,
 would the netstat command to show you what's going on in the machine
 be guaranteed of absolutely always showing everything
 that is happening?
 And I said, no, it can't because it's sharing a computer
 with other code.
 And so theoretically, other code
 could modify what we think we're seeing.
 Well, it turns out that, as many people know,
 there are things like VMware and Virtual PC,
 which is the technology that Microsoft bought from somebody,
 which begins to create much stronger boundaries and barriers.
 These things are extremely useful from a security standpoint.
 And we're going to be looking at specific examples of that next week
 and understanding, you know, what kinds of security features
 they offer.
 Well, I think people are probably starting to get an idea
 that the virtualization means you can wall off part of your computer
 from another part of your computer.
 What's exciting is there's still software involved,
 but it's much more supported and enhanced by the hardware
 support than is emulation.
 And it is much more likely that you, as you said, Leo,
 that you can wall off and you can create truly, I mean,
 like provably secure, provably impervious containers.
 And the really cool thing is the idea, for example,
 of creating a virtual machine or a sandbox
 in which you surf the net.
 If you do that and you still have to behave yourself
 because again, you know, you could download something
 and drag it out of the sandbox into the rest of your machine
 and still get yourself in trouble.
 So again, there's no perfect solution that can exist,
 but it can certainly prevent malicious things.
 For example, we were also talking last week about that Windows
 Metafile Vulnerability still being around and infecting
 maybe as many as a million Myspace users.
 If those people were surfing in a secured virtual machine web
 browser that had no contact inherently to the rest of their machine,
 well, that Windows Metafile Vulnerability could infect
 the virtual machine, but that infection could never get any further.
 And when you terminate the virtual machine, any infection
 is snuffed out at the same time.
 That's I use a virtual machine to run Windows on my MacBook.
 And we're going to talk about VMware.
 We get a lot of email lately and VMware's done some neat stuff,
 including offer, some stuff for free.
 And even Microsoft now is offering copies of virtual PC for free.
 So there are a lot of free ways that you can do this.
 Well, and I think that, you know, we've talked about how long-running
 themes of ours in security now will be, you know, keeping touch
 with what happens with VPNs and what happens with, you know,
 various like long-term security technologies.
 Virtual machines is going to end up being in our toolkit because
 for exactly this reason, I think we're just seeing the beginning of this.
 I would imagine a couple years from now, there will be a number
 of competing virtual machine products.
 And these things will be easier and easier to use.
 I agree.
 Yeah, I did run across one really interesting sort of concern.
 I haven't had a chance to explore it fully yet.
 I'll know everything there is to know about it a week from now
 when we continue with this.
 But there was a researcher did some work on the notion of using
 virtual machines against us.
 That is, unfortunately, that power, as is the case with all power,
 can be turned to the dark side.
 Oh, boy.
 There's something called the blue pill.
 Oh, yeah, the blue pill.
 Yeah.
 And that, of course, refers to our friend, Neo, and the matrix,
 the movie, the matrix.
 There's a security researcher and a woman who has a red pill
 and the blue pill.
 Yep.
 She's got the red pill, I think, is the solution of the blue pill.
 Exactly.
 I just remember.
 And the idea is that it is possible to essentially, I mean,
 exactly, I mean, it's a perfect analogy to the matrix where you
 believe you're in the real world, but in fact, you know, you're
 in a virtual machine.
 You're in a virtual world.
 And this, the idea is, it turns out that due to insecurities that
 exist in the way our current operating systems have been
 implemented.
 And again, there are workarounds for this and one hopes they will
 happen soon.
 But due to the way these have been implemented, it is possible
 to literally take the blue pill.
 You run this program and suddenly nothing you see changes.
 But you are now no longer using your computer.
 You have just been encapsulated in a virtual machine and something
 going on on the outside of that virtual machine, you would have
 no way of knowing or seeing.
 And at that point, it is impenetrable.
 Isn't that interesting?
 That's just so cool.
 We'll talk more about this next week.
 And again, all enabled by the hardware, which is where this
 happens with very good speed and thanks to the 386 that has been
 evolving ever since and Intel's still not done.
 Yep.
 Yep.
 Quite an amazing thing.
 Fascinating subject.
 This has been as much a history lesson as it has been a technology
 lesson.
 And I hope you've enjoyed it.
 We're glad you listened in.
 And we want to remind you when it comes to security, one name
 jumps to the mind.
 And that is Estaro Corporation, our fabulous sponsor, making
 this podcast possible.
 A-S-T-A-R-O.com.
 They're the makers of the Estaro Security Gateway.
 If you're small or medium business network needs superior
 protection from spam, from viruses, from hackers, as well as
 complete VPN capabilities plus intrusion protection and content
 filtering and an industrial strength firewall, the Estaro
 Gateways do it all.
 It's really a remarkable, easy to use, high performance
 appliance.
 I've got 120 here.
 And it's remarkable what it can do.
 Contact Estaro.
 A-S-T-A-R-O.com.
 You can schedule a free trial or call 877-4.
 Estaro, toll free.
 For a trial of the ASG, the Estaro Gateway appliance in your
 business.
 And by the way, non-commercial users can download the software.
 For free.
 For home at A-S-T-A-R-O.com.
 You can run it on an EPC because it's really just a Linux
 form of Linux distribution.
 And then what's cool, I think it's 79 euros a year, you can
 subscribe to their updates and get the spam filtering, the
 content filtering, the anti-virus, the firewall, all this stuff
 running on this thing.
 So if you want to build a very inexpensive, very powerful
 gateway as an end user, this is a great solution too.
 A-S-T-A-R-O.com.
 And I think we should mention grc.com, don't you Steve?
 That's where all this comes from.
 Estaro may sponsor us, but grc sponsors everything Steve does.
 Of course, it's his company, a great company that gives you
 Spinrite, among all the other wonderful things grc.com does.
 If you have a disk and who doesn't, a hard drive, you need
 Spinrite, the ultimate disk recovery and maintenance
 utility.
 If it can be recovered in software, Spinrite can do it.
 There is no better program in the world.
 It does routinely perform miracles.
 People can go to Spinrite.info and read some of the unsolicited,
 you know, actually they're love letters that we get back.
 People saying thank you, thank you, thank you, and telling
 their stories.
 I just love getting those.
 Steve, it's kind of neat because essentially, you know, you
 had a big company with hundreds of employees in a big building
 and you parent it down and you've got your focus now.
 It's very simple in his life.
 Security and Spinrite.
 Yeah.
 And that's it.
 And you're doing what you love and you're giving everybody
 just a really great product and great information.
 Well, and Spinrite's owners are really the sponsors of security
 now from my end.
 Always happen.
 Yeah.
 Hey, thank you, Steve.
 We will talk again next week for more information about what
 we've talked about, links, show notes and all of that stuff.
 There are two places to go.
 Of course, Steve site is grc.com/securitynow.
 He also hosts a transcript there.
 This would be a good one, I think, to get a transcript of.
 And I know Elaine's typing like crazy as we speak.
 But you can also get a 16-kilobit version.
 Easier download if you're on dialup.
 And there's a great forum there where people discuss the
 security topics, Steve raises.
 I'm glad you reminded me of that.
 We have a news server.
 And anyone who has a news reader, most people have that built
 into their browser, can go to news.grc.com.
 And we do have a security now news group, which is constant.
 I mean, it's a great place to discuss topics of the show and
 also ask questions.
 There's just, I don't know, we have hundreds of really good
 people who hang out in our GRC forums.
 And I'm going to try to be a little bit better on Twit.TV now
 that we kind of have a security now page on there to put more
 information and more links in there instead of just shoveling
 you over to Steve.
 Ultimately, of course, there's always a link to Steve there.
 And that's really the place to go for the definitive stuff.
 But just things like, you know, a Wikipedia article about
 386 Macs, that kind of stuff.
 I'll start putting some of that stuff in the show notes at
 Twit.TV because I know that people are looking for that stuff too.
 Well, Steve, we have really started an interesting topic.
 I have one more question for you, and please don't yell at me.
 But somebody asked me, is the VPN stuff still in progress?
 What's going on there?
 Yes, it is still in progress.
 I feel bad.
 I'm not trying to guilt you.
 Yeah, I've got about 20 pages to find.
 The problem was that I literally didn't have anywhere to put it.
 You know, GRC has been growing over time by my just adding stuff
 and adding stuff and adding stuff.
 And I decided I really wanted to deal with third party cookies.
 That is the issue of sort of bringing that back to people's attention,
 which you and I will be talking about once I get that online.
 And then the open VPN stuff is, I mean, it's absolutely going to happen.
 The problem is that my site has never had any navigation or, you know,
 or menuing or anything.
 I just haven't had any.
 Well, you just might find this up.
 And eventually the more you get on there, the more you need navigation.
 Yes. And I mean, people who love the work that GRC has done over the years,
 professional web designers write to me and say, "Steve, you know..."
 Wow.
 My hand.
 What's the problem?
 And so...
 You're like me.
 You're like me.
 I did it all yourself.
 Well, and I've wanted to understand what CSS is.
 Cascading style sheets.
 And I wanted to do a menuing system.
 See, the problem is if I had anybody else do it,
 they'd come along with some JavaScript blob that was spit out by some web
 authoring tool.
 And I mean, I just look at it in Shutter.
 It would be nothing that I could use.
 So for the last month and a half, I guess, I've been working with CSS.
 I have now, and actually all of this has been done in public view in our news
 groups in the news.feedback forum we have there.
 We've got a menu system now running no scripting pure CSS
 and runs on every browser.
 Actually, there's nothing like it on the web.
 I've ended up developing some very cool technology
 to allow zero scripting pure CSS beautiful hierarchical menus.
 So that'll be appearing shortly.
 Then I'll be finishing up the work I was doing on cookies.
 Then I'm going to finish up the OpenVPN stuff.
 So I mean, I know people are waiting for it and anxious.
 I only want to do it once and I want to do it right.
 And I just had nowhere to put it on the site.
 It's on the punch list.
 Steve's working on it.
 It is.
 That's all we can say.
 And Mr. G works at his own pace on his own stuff.
 And that's why we love him.
 You should read Devorex column on CSS, by the way,
 online at pcmagazine.com this week.
 I think you'll enjoy it, Steve.
 He's basically saying the same thing you're saying.
 I don't know if you've been talking together, but he agrees with you.
 And he's not coming to it as a programmer.
 I mean, he's just trying to observe what's happening in the world.
 And it's just obviously a problem.
 We have very good designers working on Twitter.tv.
 And they did a very nice job.
 And I don't believe they-- there is JavaScript on there,
 but I don't believe they use any JavaScript for the navigation stuff.
 Well, yeah.
 Here I am preaching not having scripting.
 So, you know, how could I require scripting on GRC?
 The other thing is I certainly didn't want to-- since scripting is lowering your security,
 it would be bizarre for me to say, oh, you have to lower your security
 to come to my security site.
 No, I agree with you.
 I agree with 100%.
 The only scripting we have is for the Flash Player on the site.
 And it's just a-- it's a way, frankly, of handling the EOLIS patent issue
 that's happened to Microsoft's Internet Explorer.
 You can't embed multimedia objects anymore in a simple one-click fashion.
 So, we have a little JavaScript.
 Well, and most menus are generally JavaScript.
 They will still function maybe in a crippled fashion,
 but you need to turn scripting on in order to get a next-level drop-down to work.
 Right.
 Well, as you've learned, you can do it in CSS.
 It's just a little bit of-- yeah.
 It's-- yeah.
 All right, Steve.
 Hey, it's a real pleasure.
 We will talk again next week.
 I'm off for Toronto to do my TV show call for help,
 but we'll be back next week to talk more.
 And you're going to come to Toronto next month, right?
 Yep.
 You're putting it off this month.
 It's a little muggy there.
 I don't think you want to go this.
 I don't do well in humidity.
 All right, Steve.
 We'll talk again next week.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 ♪ Security now ♪
