 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by AOL Radio at AOL.com/podcasting.
 The last day of the month, and in some ways the last day of summer, let's check in with
 Steve Gibson, you survived your cruise, I survived the cruise, the ship did not go
 down unless it did, in which case I'm doing this podcast posthumously, and if it is, please
 don't worry, put a horrible thought, Leo, the last podcast.
 We might have lost you in the arctic.
 Yeah, well, no, I can't, you know, we're taping this move obviously before I leave on the cruise,
 but it's going to be an Alaska cruise, and it's a geek cruise, but it's kind of an unusual
 one because it's chess.
 We're taping this?
 No one knows.
 If I were cool, tape is not quite the word we use.
 Exactly.
 I say film on the TV show too.
 I guess I'm an old-timer.
 How am I an old-timer?
 No, we're actually, there's no tape involved in the creation of these.
 It's all bits.
 Once it leaves the microphone and gets into the mixer, it all is bits.
 Yeah, well, well, you referred to Mitch Miller last week, that was pretty much bit it.
 That was it.
 They knew.
 Pretty soon I'll be saying the Internet's a series of tubes and it'll be all over.
 The jig is up.
 Anyway, the chess cruise is fun because I've been working on a lecture for it, and they
 let me go on these geek cruises if I do a lecture.
 I play chess as a high school kid, but I'm not a great player by any means, just an average
 club player, but I always love the game.
 I said, "Well, I'll tell you what.
 I'll do a lecture on the history of chess playing machines, because in many ways the
 history of computing is parallel to the history of these chess playing machines.
 It was inspired, Babbage was inspired by a chess playing automaton to think of a computer
 of a machine that could think touring, and many others have been heavily influenced by
 the idea of making a computer that could play chess."
 Well, and in fact, of course, it was the holy grail of the original AI movement back in
 the '70s.
 Precisely.
 It's interesting what I found in my research is it's solved, and it is no longer used in
 AI as a goal in any means.
 No longer interesting.
 It's not interesting.
 They feel they've solved the problem, so what do they use now?
 They use the game of Go, which is hideously complex.
 It's a 19 by 19 board, and it's much more positional and intuition-based.
 It's very hard to calculate.
 Of course, they solve chess by cheating.
 Well, they say that, but they're pretty good.
 No, but the way they wanted to solve it was by getting a machine to understand chess.
 That was the point of artificial intelligence.
 Yeah, exactly.
 To understand what they're really doing is the machine has just gotten so fast and so
 parallel and they've got all these opening books that are pre-programmed in.
 They still have judgment.
 They still have to do some judgment.
 They can't just- there are more positions possible than you could calculate even today.
 Right.
 They're doing alphabet approving and determining what directions make sense for further exploration.
 I mean, precisely.
 A ton of technology in there, but they didn't end up doing it the way they thought they
 were going to end up doing it.
 No, they don't think.
 But I think maybe that's a moral in some ways, is that machines won't really think in the
 way that humans think, but they can be made to accomplish the same tasks in a way that's
 to mimic, in a way that's unique to machines.
 They think, but not as humans do, I guess you could say.
 That's exactly what the conclusion of the talk is.
 What have we learned?
 It's a very interesting area.
 Somehow I'd like to get this information up on the net.
 Maybe I can figure out a way to do that.
 Are you going to record your speech?
 Yeah.
 Maybe I'll just put a recording on.
 That'd be the best thing to do.
 They're actually very good recordings.
 There's a two-hour video from the Association of Computing Machinery, the ACM that was done
 a couple of years ago at the Computer History Museum with many of the pioneers in the field.
 It's just fascinating.
 Fascinating.
 Well, you can just start that up and then go hit the buffet.
 I was thinking of that.
 You know, I could talk, but why should I talk when you can get David Levy and the guy
 invented this?
 I mean, some really brilliant guys here telling you this story.
 But I'm going to maybe I'll show some clips from it, but that's on Google video, though.
 I'll put a link in the show notes if people want to know more about that.
 Enough of that.
 We want to talk about security.
 Yep.
 Anything to cover from previous episodes before we head into our topic of the week?
 I think not this time.
 So what's the topic of the week, I guess?
 This week in our continuing series on virtual machine technology, I want to talk about application
 sandboxes.
 Alright.
 It's a really interesting topic and the way it fits into the spectrum is also sort of
 interesting.
 We started off talking about, you remember, of course, the original history of virtual
 machines back when Mitch Miller was still singing, then we talked about VMware, which
 I would consider that sort of like medium weight to or maybe heavyweight virtualization.
 I mean, it's kind of the current state of the yard.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Although last week we talked about blue pill, which is like, in a sense, it's like super
 heavyweight virtualization in the sense that it's even, it operates at a level underneath
 where VMware operates.
 And there's another application range, which is the topic for this week.
 And that is sort of lightweight virtualization, lighter weight virtualization, and what the
 effects are and the trade-offs and so forth.
 Alright.
 An interesting, now that we have like several perspectives on virtualization, we have enough
 that we can sort of, we can develop a way of thinking sort of generically about this
 notion of virtualization levels.
 For example, what the SVM technology in the Pacifica technology that AMD developed and
 Vanderpool's VT technology from Intel.
 We talked about all these last week, but they're essentially built into the chip hardware
 virtualization technologies, right?
 Well, exactly.
 And what the way to think about them is that they create virtual chips.
 That is, they virtualize the processor engine itself so that multiple operating systems believe
 these are multiple processors.
 So they're like, they're virtualizing at the hardware level to create multiple instances
 of the computer system hardware virtually.
 And so that's an important way to look at it because then the next level up is its software
 running on normal hardware, which uses some of the processor features to create the illusion
 of multiple chips so that you can run a process, so that you can run operating systems in multiple
 on the platform.
 The point is that you don't actually have the same level of hardware virtualization.
 So you've got to do a lot more work, which is where VMware is.
 So it's almost like time slicing the processor to make it look like they're multiple processors.
 Well, it's doing exactly that.
 And it's also having to play a lot of games to make up for the fact that you don't actually
 have virtual processor support, which our next generation 64-bit chips will have and uses
 up cycles and so makes it less efficient.
 Right.
 And so as we come higher, then you might think of an operating system itself as providing
 virtual environments for its applications.
 For example, I can run a DOS shell or DOS program in a DOS box, and as we talked about
 several weeks ago, that DOS program thinks it's on DOS.
 Right.
 I mean, software that was written 20 years ago for MS DOS or PC DOS, and I mean, as I
 mentioned, it's in order to put data on the screen.
 It's writing characters directly to, you know, B800 hex buffer.
 But the point is that the operating system has virtualized DOS.
 It's created a virtual DOS environment pretending to be DOS.
 So that's like the next level up in this notion of like virtual layer architecture.
 And so, and then you could argue that applications themselves are able to create virtual containers,
 like how Word can be editing multiple documents at the same time.
 So the document sort of doesn't have the awareness that a running program does.
 Right.
 But, you know, so there are these layers.
 Well, one of the interesting things that we're beginning to see, and this is really an offshoot
 of security and privacy concerns, is this notion of sandboxes.
 We originally talked about it when we began this series in the context, for example, of
 the well-known Java virtual machine, the JVM.
 The idea being, and this was, you know, son's concept from the start, was that they would
 create a virtual architecture in which you could run this Java bytecode.
 The Java bytecode, I mean, it could be implemented in an actual hardware architecture, but it
 wasn't designed to.
 It was designed to be emulated so that the, so this Java virtual machine is an emulator
 of a sort of a fictitious machine that was never actually, that never actually existed.
 And the point is, that kind of emulation allows you to sandbox the Java, meaning that because
 the emulator is actually doing all the work, that is, the Java is not Intel or PowerPC
 or whatever chip.
 It's not the assembly language or the machine code of the chip, it's an abstraction of this
 machine.
 Because the emulator is reading those instructions and doing what it chooses with them, you're
 able to impose a very rigid set of strictures over what the code is able to do.
 And thus the so-called Java sandbox, the idea being that it's safe to run Java because
 unless the enclosing emulator, the virtual machine wants to have the program access the
 hard drive or access the net or do whatever it wants, the program can't.
 It's entirely beholden to what the emulator is willing to do for it.
 Unless there's a whole, of course, an exploit or a security bug, but a perfectly written
 VM.
 Exactly.
 So that's the theory.
 Now we have Windows or Mac or Linux, we have operating systems that are very complicated
 and have this concern with both with privacy and security.
 And so the question is, how can we, can we use this virtual machine technology in some
 way to create enclosures or sandboxes around our own applications?
 Around applications where we want them not to be able to reach out and touch our hard
 drives or send data out on the internet in order to work behind our backs.
 So what has sprouted up is a bunch of utility sort of software which pretends or purports
 or tries to create this sort of technology.
 Now it's confusing because in my updating myself on the state of the art here as I did
 for this podcast, I found all kinds of claims being made by these sandboxing programs which
 are just not true.
 What's happened is that this, because of the upsurge of excitement and popularity about
 virtual machines, they're all now saying, oh, you know, we create a virtual computer within
 your computer.
 Okay, except it doesn't, in most cases, there are, well, for example, there's a program
 called Sandbox IE or Sandbox E as it's normally called.
 There's one called Green Border, there's Fortress Grand has several sandboxing programs, a virtual
 sandbox, version one is free, version two you pay for.
 There's a company called Metro pipe that has something called the portable virtual privacy
 machine.
 There's a, there's VE light from a company called Secure OL, a product called BufferZone,
 one called Run Safe, you know, there's a bunch of utilities which are jumping on to this
 bandwagon of so-called virtualization and using that term improperly.
 Now I actually mentioned one which is not using it improperly and that's this portable
 virtual privacy machine from a company called Metro pipe.
 They're actually, they've packaged the QEMU, QEMU emulator and, and I mean, actually trying
 to get Linux to boot.
 In my experiments with it, it fired up a DOS window, it looked, you know, I saw the
 signs of a BIOS that was booting, it even began to decompress the Linux kernel, then
 it all exploded.
 So, okay, well, and I thought, well, maybe it doesn't like my machine.
 So, or, or, you know, I don't need to reboot normally very often.
 So I, I shut everything down and restarted Windows and this is Windows 2000 that I'm still
 using on my main workspace and, and I tried it again and it decompressed the Linux kernel
 and then exploded.
 It's like, okay, well, I, I'm not recommending that one.
 And in any case, apparently it is an emulator and very slow.
 There are some QEMU has moved forward with its technology to, to take advantage of more
 virtualization hardware that's available but apparently it's still got a ways to go.
 Okay, so, so, what sandboxing does is two things or, or the way to think about these
 sandboxing solutions.
 One is security, which is for protection from malware.
 The idea that you could, you could run IE or Firefox or Opera or whatever inside a sandboxed
 environment where it would be unable to do anything to your machine.
 So, so security is one aspect.
 The other is privacy because I mean of real concern for people, especially for example,
 if they're at a friend's house or they're using a public computer or, you know, they
 don't, it's not their own machine.
 The idea of leaving footprints behind, you know, I mean that we know that browsers have
 caches that, that keep cached images of, of, of chunks of web pages that have been downloaded.
 They, they have, you know, past URL libraries, they're, they're constantly storing cookies
 on your machine.
 And of course, traditionally, I mean, there've been horror stories throughout history throughout
 the internet history of employers, you know, checking employees, browser caches to, you
 know, see what, where they've been and what they've been doing.
 And often finding, let's just say stuff on the computer that seems non work related.
 So, so the idea is from a privacy standpoint is, you know, can we, can we use this sandboxing
 technology to basically securely wipe out any trace of what we've done?
 Now, I ought to say that, that VMware or virtual PC, you know, the, the real industrial strengths,
 true virtual machine systems, which are available from, from VMware and Microsoft, those are
 creating a true OS boot environment and really offer robust containment.
 Unfortunately, none of these other sandbox utilities do that.
 What, what they do is clever and, and, and useful and valuable.
 And in some cases, free, and I'm going to, I'll talk about some specifics here in a second,
 but I want to, I want to explain the technology so that people understand the limitations and
 don't ask or trust these things further than they should.
 What they're doing is exactly like what we've talked about many times in the past.
 In fact, just recently when we were talking about blue pill and I was talking about how
 root kits get into the kernel and, and intercept functions in the operating system for the,
 for the specific reason of hiding themselves.
 They will unlink themselves from the process list.
 So that simple process exploring won't reveal them.
 They will, they will filter the, the application program interface, the API that the operating
 system publishes to its applications, they'll filter that so that any reference to them
 is removed in, in the applications, you know, listing the directory contents of the drive.
 Well, what the sandbox programs are all doing is the same.
 It's a, it's a, it's a, oftentimes there are kernel level components because they need
 to get into the system in a deep way, but they are, they then filter the operating system
 functions which programs need to use in order to store stuff persistently on the hard drive.
 So for example, they will intercept the, the file open and the file read and the file write
 calls that applications make to the operating system in order to perform disk IO.
 They will intercept and filter the registry reading and updating modifying writing calls
 in order to, to, essentially to impose a layer of supervision between the application and
 the operating system.
 Now it's cool and it works, but you can't trust it.
 And that's the problem is that they're, they're, they're, they're over selling what the technology
 can, can really be used to guarantee.
 And so I want to, I mean, I, I want to end up talking about how valuable these things
 are and where they're valuable, but, but to explain that, that this is something which
 is inherently error prone and accident prone.
 If, if applications, I mean, and, and, and it sort of comes back to what Joanna was talking
 about with blue pill, the idea being that if software knows, if some software knows what
 other software is doing, it can work around it.
 And so the, the problem with the sandboxing programs, which are not true, which are not
 creating true virtual machine environments is the, you know, the, the, the problem is
 that the, the program is still running on the operating system. And if it, if the program
 wanted to work itself around containment, it almost certainly can.
 So we're back in sort of that cat and mouse game where if the program, you know, you know,
 the traditional virus antivirus program malware, anti-malware cat and mouse, the idea being
 that, that you're trying to erect an artificial barrier to restrict the things that a program
 can do, but you're using software to impose the restrictions.
 Well, there are other ways to achieve the same things using non-traditional or undocumented
 operating system calls that may not be filtered and interposed or are too burdensome to filter
 and interpose. So, so I, I would never absolutely trust something that was, that was one of
 these pseudo virtualization solutions from a security standpoint. Now that's different
 than from a privacy standpoint. And that's where I think these can have real value. So,
 so I just want to make sure that I've been, I've been clear the, these pseudo virtualization
 sandboxes. And I should say that I've got them all listed with links and URLs and, and
 some, some comments on the, the episode notes page on off of, you know, for, for this episode,
 number 55 on security now. So I've, so I've got them listed. I, I ran through them briefly,
 but people can go there. And I'll be talking about one in particular in a second that I,
 that I like most based on everything that I've seen and, and sort of doing a quick review
 of all these options that, that I've been able to find. But, but the true virtualization,
 for example, that VMware creates and virtual PC creates where they're, where they're actually
 booting an operating system. And you are then, or, or again, I should also also say the VMware
 player that we talked about several weeks ago, VMware player that's booting, you boot to,
 Ubuntu, Linux, and then running Firefox. I mean, there you're talking seriously good
 security because, because the browser is now running in an entire operating system, which
 is running inside of a, of a virtual machine environment. And, and this, the security is,
 is virtually absolute. The user still has to be responsible for not allowing network exploits.
 That is, you know, this thing is only useful probably if it's on the internet. So you need
 to make sure that it has access to the internet and not back into your own computer's network,
 or it can, you know, play file sharing games or whatever.
 Let me ask you that. What kind of barrier is there? I mean, if I get a Sasser or Zotub,
 a network aware virus in the virtual machine, can it spread to the real machine?
 Yes. If you enable those features, for example, one of the, one of the, the things that VMware
 allows is, is shared file access. It's very convenient. And in fact, I use it all the time.
 As I mentioned before, I'll have many virtual machines created each with a different personal
 software firewall installed. And I'm jumping between them. Well, it's, it's very convenient
 to, for all, for the, to allow all of them to see a shared directory on my real physical
 hard drive. So, you know, so VMware wants to offer that feature because it's a convenience,
 but it, of course, with that comes a security consequence. And, and similarly, I assume
 a virtual machine is absolutely impervious. It isn't. Right. It, it, I would say the best
 way to express it would be that a, a true virtual machine environment like VMware or
 virtual PC or parallels or, you know, one of those where you're actually booting an operating
 system within that containment. It is a, it, an inquiry, a virtually secure tool, but like
 any tool, it can be misused. If you download a file in that machine and then drag it out
 of the virtual environment onto your real desktop, right? Well, you've just breached
 that barrier. Right. So, okay, so, so I wanted to just be very clear about what this distinction
 is. Now, these virtual, these, these pseudo virtual environments that unfortunately tend
 to oversell themselves because they just love that word virtual because everyone thinks,
 "Oh, that's good." The problem is they're not running in a sec, I mean, in a true secondary
 instance of an operating system that you had to install. The benefit is that they're much
 lighter weight. That is, they're easier to install. Remember, I mentioned that VMware
 is a, is a heavy installation. I mean, it's creating virtual adapters and it's, you know,
 it takes a while. I mean, you, you've, you've made a commitment when you've even stuck the
 VMware player on your system. It's something that, you know, you don't just casually walk
 around with a USB dongle and, and, and do it to machines that you encounter. Although
 that time may be coming given hardware support for virtualization, that may not be so hard
 to do down the road. Ah, that, I mean, that's a very good point, Leo. You could imagine
 in this next generation with 64-bit hardware virtualization, you could say, give me an
 empty, give me an empty machine and run this operating system in it. And it would be, you
 know, instantaneous. It'd just be like hitting a hotkey. Yeah. Okay. So, so what these pseudo
 virtual sandboxes do is they interpose themselves between the application and the operating
 system attempting to, to hook and filter any way that the application could, could make
 a permanent change to the operating system. You want them not to be able to do that.
 So, and, and, and they, they really vary in their capabilities. Based on what I saw, one
 that I would recommend that people play with, if they're interested in experimenting with
 this, is this, is the first one I called, it started off being a sandbox for IE. Therefore,
 its name was sandbox IE or sandboxy. It's just S-A-N-D-S-A-N-D-B-O-X-I-E.com. What I like
 about it is that it appears to be very good. I mean, these guys have got active X running
 in a virtual container. It's, it's gone way beyond IE. You can pretty much sandbox any
 browser and application that you want to. It is very lightweight. It's a, it's about
 a 245 K, 245 K. So, so less than a quarter megabyte download, which expands to about
 a megabyte, about 900 K in, in a directory. You can install it without rebooting and it
 worked just beautifully for me. There were several others that I mean just ground my
 system to a halt. All kinds of errors coming up, files couldn't be found. I mean, basically
 it was a disaster. The, the one that I, that I was hoping I was going to be able to like
 and recommend is about an eight megabyte download. It's called, it's called the virtual sandbox
 free edition version one. It's from this, this fortress grand corporation and I've got
 a link on my show notes. The problem was, I mean, it offered lots of control, nice UI,
 but it just didn't work. I mean, it was like, okay, and what was really disturbing is I
 couldn't figure out how to get rid of it. It, it put nothing in ad remove programs list.
 It had installed itself deeply in my machine with all kinds of DLLs and stuff. I mean,
 it was, you know, it was a, it was a serious install. I thought, Oh, no, now I'm stuck with
 this. Well, the good news is running the setup program a second time, it saw that it was
 installed and it offered to uninstall, but there was no documentation I could find anywhere
 that, that indicated that that's how you do that. It was, you know, it's just like, okay,
 I hope this works. But, but anyway, the one I like is this, is this sandboxy. It is fully
 functional in its free version and offers additional features if you register, but you
 really need not register. The way it works, I would describe it as file level sandboxing.
 When you, when you set it up, and for example, you want to run, you want to sandbox IE or,
 or Firefox, you want it, you want to sandbox your browser. The first time you use the browser,
 basically it's monitoring everything the application does. If the browser, for example, opens its
 cache files in order to, in order to create a place for the browser's caching of, of images
 and other web objects to go, sandboxy makes a shadow copy of that file. Whatever any files
 that your applications open, sandboxy makes a shadow copy of that file. Now, if the file
 is open for read-only access, meaning that that file handle that the application has
 created can only be used for reading, sandboxy is smart enough to see, oh, you know, this
 handle that's been created cannot be used for modifying the file. So it will, it's smart
 enough not to make a shadow copy. Unfortunately, many applications that will open a file for
 full access, for read and write access, even if they're only going to be reading. Sandboxy
 has no choice but to make a copy of that file in its, sort of, in its shadow land in order
 to then intercept any modifications the application makes. So, so the point is that what I found
 in using it is that there's a, it's a little sluggish getting going because it's having
 to, to make copies of stuff that the application touches when it starts up. But, but once you've
 sort of got that little bit of sluggishness behind you, and I should mention I'm using,
 you know, an older, I've got a dual 866 megahertz Pentium, is it three or four anything right
 now? Yeah, I mean, I know I'm, I just, I've got so much installed here, I'm reluctant to
 move to a different hardware platform. It's like, you know, that nightmare of setting
 up windows from scratch. But anyway, so, so, in my experience, this thing really works.
 The guys who've developed it had been working on it for years. They've got, they've got
 interception for DCOM and RPC, activate support, comm object support. I'm, I'm very impressed
 with, with Sandboxy and with what it does for free. I would, and the other application
 that I like so much is because it's lightweight, it installs without a reboot, it really would
 be possible for you to either have it on a dongle or to like maybe email yourself a
 copy to your, to your Google mail account. So you'll always have it available. If you
 were in at a friend's house, you were at some other corporate location. My, my, my point
 is that this is a sandbox which installs smoothly and cleanly. I need to mention it only does
 run under newer operating systems because it uses all the API functions of Windows 2000
 and on. So, so, so 2000 and XP are the platforms where it can be used. None of these things
 that I have found will run back on 95, 98 and they're just, you know, those are just too
 old now. But, but the beauty of it being so lightweight and the fact that it really does
 work is if you wanted to use someone else's computer over which you didn't have long-term
 supervisory control, you could quickly install Sandboxy and do anything you wanted to within
 the sandbox with absolute confidence that when you shut it down and, and these files
 are deleted, no change has been left on the hard drive. No change has been left in the
 registry. And so for, for, for, from a standpoint of real easy lightweight privacy, I think
 it's a tremendous solution. I mean, I, I don't, I don't know of any reason why it wouldn't
 also protect you from a security standpoint. I just know that that's inherently dangerous.
 It's, you know, assume that it will. Right. Right. I mean, it's, they say it does. I respect
 these guys. But again, you know, there are principles of security which are in violet.
 And one of them is using software to block other software is inherently prone to error.
 It's just, you know, it's trying to filter what the software, what malicious software
 wants to do. And if malicious software knew you were, it was in a Sandboxy Sandbox or any
 of these other ones for that matter, I have to imagine there was a way around it. But,
 but the, for the purpose of privacy protection, I really like this because it's, it's lightweight.
 It's easily portable. It would allow you to use someone's computer with complete confidence
 that once you're done, you have left absolutely no trace behind because there on the privacy
 side, I'm sure their technology is robust. So how much is Sandboxy? Free. I like it. Yeah,
 it is free. You get some additional features if you register and it's, I don't remember.
 I think it's maybe $19 or $20 to register. I mean, very, maybe even less than that. I don't
 remember because it's Y or X. I. Sandbox. I. E. Because it's, it started its life as an
 I. E. Sandbox. But, but that was back in version one. They're at version 2.65. They even got
 a version that now runs on 64 bit windows or 64 bit platforms rather windows on 64 bit
 platforms. I'm, I'm very impressed. I think, you know, given that all the ones that I was
 able to find, there were some that were, you know, that were much larger, much heavier
 weight, some were frightening. I mean, in the, in what they did to your system, my feeling
 is if you want, if you want your system to have, you know, a industrial strength Sandbox,
 then VMware player with Ubuntu and Firefox that we talked about. I mean, it's, you install
 it once, then you've got a killer Sandbox, which is running the full operating system
 in containment or, or, or, or, you know, Microsoft's virtual PC. Similarly, so, so if, if it's
 on your own system and you want real security and the same kind of sandboxing because of
 course those also give you the same sort of privacy guarantees in a, in a cleaner fashion
 in, in as much as it's a virtual machine and this stuff really does work from VMware and
 Microsoft. That's what I would recommend. But if your interest, for example, is portable
 privacy where you want to be able to use a machine temporarily and absolutely no, you
 know, you want to, you want to use Google mail, which is web based and know that no images
 that you display, nothing that you've downloaded, no cookies that have been left behind, no login
 credentials. I mean, oh, these things also say that they are, you know, our protection
 from keystroke loggers. Well, I mean, that just makes me roll my eyes. Because they're
 obviously not. That's what you just, you can't. It's just, you know, it could be hardware.
 There's so many ways to do this. Exactly. So they're, they're making claims that are
 not possible for them to guarantee. But from the privacy standpoint, I think these are,
 I think sandboxy. I mean, and the other ones too, but the other ones are frightening. I
 mean, they just, they hurt your system. It's like this, you could run off of a memory of
 a flash, a thumb drive. Well, you can't run it off of the thumb drive, but it's so small
 that it was from it. I get it. Yes, you could literally store it on a 256 meg thumb drive,
 just to always have it with you. On the other hand, it is so small that if you, if you had
 a server that you know, where you knew you could access and that, that's why I sort of
 like the idea, you know, either one of them real quick, a free file site, or just send
 it as an attachment to yourself in Google. And then you could always access that in order
 to install. I mean, Google ends up sort of being like a free files server. Can you save
 your sandboxy virtual machine and move that around? You can't, you, you cannot do that.
 It's so in that sense, it's not the robust solution. See, that would be great. Then if
 I had, you know, if I bookmarked things or I had cached files, I could take them with
 me instead of leaving them behind, which you have to do. Yeah. Yeah. And I have to say
 that I was, I was trying to cover as many of these as I could as quickly as I could. So
 I did not go as deep into sandboxy as, as certainly as possible to do. They've got a
 nice website, facts, you know, documentation. I mean, I just, I feel like people have told
 me about this. So I think you're right. I think this is probably the kind of prefer
 word choice. Yeah, I feel good about it. Again, trust none of these trust no one trust none
 of these for security. Right. But I would say trust all of them for privacy. That that
 part, I think they've probably got nailed. And it's entirely feasible to filter Windows
 API in order to enforce privacy in order to like keep shadow copies of files. And and
 I would, I would, if the idea of, of like this kind of portable, transportable privacy shell
 is appealing to people. I really recommend our users check out sandboxy. I mean, it's
 free. I would, I would, I would support them if you end up finding that you use it, you
 know, go back and give them your donation because this is the kind of thing we want to keep
 moving forward. And it's just a, I was very impressed. It did exactly what I was, what
 I was hoping I could find a sandbox to do. Again, it, it says it will protect you against
 malware and why not? I mean, certainly, I mean, my, I guess my point is, it will as
 long as the malware isn't like really good about getting around sandboxing. And I have
 to imagine there is a way. So I'm not saying it's useless and, and, and isn't useful for
 protecting against malware. I'm, I'm really sure it is. But I, I would never say it's
 absolute protection because this technology can't give you absolute protection against
 malware. It can, and I believe it does give you absolute protection of, or enforcement
 of privacy. Excellent. Excellent. Very useful. Very useful tool. And once again, you've,
 you've given us something to download, install and use to protect ourselves. Thank you, Steve.
 I appreciate it. I really think people are going to like it, Neil. I want to, before
 we go, I just wanted to mention something new. You're familiar with the Chuck Norris
 facts website. You know, these are facts kind of, you know, fun facts about Chuck Norris
 like, like guns, you've seen this guns don't kill people. I have Norris kills people. Okay,
 Chuck Norris does not sleep. He waits. Anyway, people who love Chuck Norris, or even who don't
 just love these. They're very funny. Well, security expert, Bruce Schneider has been is
 the latest to be Chuck Norris. There is a site now, Bruce Schneider facts. And actually,
 they're, they're, they're great for people who are security insiders, because they'll,
 because they'll get them, you know, Bruce Schneider knows Alice's and Bob's shared secret,
 or Whitfield, Diffie, and Martin Helman use only their surnames out of fear of Bruce
 Schneider. You know, Bruce Schneider mounts side channel attacks through the front channel.
 Just, if you're interested in security, it's not that Bruce Schneider has posted a link
 on his blog. That's cool. Bruce Schneider once factored a prime number. Bruce, Bruce
 Schneider doesn't even trust Trent. Trent has to trust Bruce Schneider. Bruce Schneider
 can solve NP complete problems in end log and time. They're just totally geeky, but I just
 haven't passed that along to you. I'm a little late on it because, well, because we're pre-taping
 this. And when you hear this, it will be old news. But I thought I'd pass it along. Hey,
 Steve, thank you. I will see you next week in Toronto. And we won't record there, but
 we're gonna, we'll party down, man. I think we're going to appear jointly on the tech
 file podcast, as a matter of fact. Cool. That'll be fun. Frank has asked us to do I bring
 my own mic? No, I think Frank is my friend. I've got a big mic. You have a big mic. If
 you want the big mic, you maybe you better bring the big mic, but I'm sure Frank will
 have his own little mic. Frank Lenaris does the great tech file.ca podcast and we'll be
 appearing on that sometime in the near future. I love my microphone. I know you do and I
 love mine. You and I have the same microphone. We do. Yes. Steve Gibson, have a great week.
 We'll see you next Thursday. Okay, wait a minute. I can't stop. Wait a minute. Stop.
 Hey, where you going? I got to thank a lot of people. First of all, we don't do it enough.
 I really want to make sure I do it more often. Thank AOL because really, we wouldn't be
 able to do any of these podcasts. They provide us so much bandwidth more than a terabyte a
 day now of downloads and and you're adding two more podcasts. So they're going to take
 them now. I asked them and they said, we'd love to take up three more. So that's really,
 you know, I have to say, they're very, very generous there with their bandwidth. And I
 know if we had to pay for it, well, frankly, we wouldn't have so many podcasts. So thank
 you AOL for the great job you do. We also want to thank our sponsor who provides us with
 the funds to make this podcast possible, a Star Oak Corporation. Early adopters of security
 now and we're glad to be your adoptees. A S T A R O dot com. The makers of the Star
 Oak security gateway, if you're small or medium business network needs superior protection
 from spam viruses and hackers, as well as a complete VPN intrusion protection, content
 filtering and an industrial strength firewall. A star is the way to go open source powerful.
 It really is fantastic and easy to use it comes in a single appliance. You just plug
 it in and there it is contact a star A S T A R O dot com, or you can call them toll free
 eight, seven, seven, the number four A S T A R O to schedule a free trial of a star
 or security gateway appliance in your business. You'll see what a star can do for you. And
 of course, non business users as always can download the open source software version
 of ASG for home use at a star O dot com. Steve Gibson site is GRC dot com. That's where
 you can go to get show notes for this at GRC dot com slash security now dot HTM or get
 a lanes transcripts and the 16 kilobit versions. But while you're there, make sure you check
 out all of Steve's free security programs like unplug and pray the decombobulator. Of
 course, the shields up how many how many shields up is it over? It's over most 40 million.
 It must be by no no we're at 44.84. Last time I saw for almost 45 million 44 million systems
 scanned and protected. And if you have a hard drive, and I think almost everybody does,
 you might want to check out spin right. It's the all it's your hard drives best friend,
 the ultimate disc and recovery, disc recovery and maintenance utility. S P I N R I T E because
 Steve couldn't spell when he wrote it. But you can know how to spell it right now. I
 like you realize it was an eight dot three name eight. That's right. It had to be eight
 letters had to be eight letters back for back in the old back in, you know, 20 years ago,
 where a spin right was first born still does doesn't it? Because you boot you boot spin
 right. You put it when you download it, it's very small file because he writes everything
 in assembly. Just what is it? 30k 60k? It's tiny. It's gotten a little bigger over time
 because there's up there. There's now windows side for for creating a bootable a bootable
 CD and a bootable thumb drive before it. Yeah. So it's you run it spin right six, you run
 it in windows and it says, okay, what do you want to do? And you create a bootable drive
 or a thumb drive. I made a bootable CD and there's DOS on that there's free DOS or something
 on that, right? Right, it's free DOS and it is fat 32. So I could have used a longer file
 name now. But you know, RIT, that's the name spin right dot info S P I N R I T E dot I N
 F O, which is not in fact eight three compliant, or you can go to GRC dot com times have changed.
 We're not stuck with those three letters at the end anymore. Really a great tool. And
 if you want to read more testimonials from happy, happy customers spin right dot info
 is a place to go. Steve, we, I think we have now wrapped up this episode of security now.
 Always good Leo. And next week we are back to our Q and A that we punted on, but we had
 that busy week in security a couple of weeks ago. That mean we're gonna have 24 questions.
 We're gonna know we'll do two we'll do a dozen. It'll be Q and A number 10 episode 56. I can't
 wait for seven. Thank you. We'll see you in September is the song goes on security now.
