 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by AOL Radio at AOL.com/podcasting.
 This is Security Now with Steve Gibson, Episode 51 for August 3, 2006, VISTAs Virgin Stack.
 Security Now is brought to you by
 a Staro, makers of the Staro Security Gateway
 on the web at www.a-s-t-a-r-o.com.
 It's time to talk security with our Maven of Security,
 the man who coined the term spyware,
 wrote the first anti-spyware program,
 it created shields up and of course,
 spin-right, the ultimate disk maintenance and recovery utility.
 And now, ladies and gentlemen,
 he's become the security guru for many people.
 I have to, before we get started, Steve, I have to tell you a little story.
 Cool. I got an email from a guy who is a chief security officer
 of a major Israeli corporation. I won't say the name.
 But it's big.
 So if you're the chief security officer for a big Israeli corporation,
 you're a big security guy, right?
 Probably at the moment, you're down in a bunker.
 Well, you're not happy, but you certainly know how to keep your,
 it's a financial institution, so you know how to keep your stuff safe.
 Oh, wow. Cool.
 Occasionally, the board of directors will bring in a consultant
 to kind of watch him, you know, just to kind of double-check it.
 And he says, "There have been eight consultants in the last couple of years.
 These guys always come in, cock of the walk."
 Wow, they're really serious. They're very serious.
 Yeah. And they always think, you know, they're the new guy.
 They're going to be here for years, and I always have to explain to them,
 "No, no, you're here for a minute. I'll be here a lot longer than you."
 So they got brought this new consultant in, and he said,
 "We usually just let them, you know, scan the network and just kind of put them off in the corners."
 They go ahead, you know, and he starts coming back with very voluminous emails.
 It seemed very erudite and very intelligent.
 And he's, you know, my correspondent is a little puzzled because he talks to the guy,
 and he seems to know, he seems like an idiot, right?
 He can't put two sentences together.
 Where is he getting this good stuff?
 So at one point he sends them, he says, "Well, I've scanned and there's a port open here."
 And he sent them a screenshot clipped carefully to avoid certain telltale information,
 but the security officer looks at it and he figures it out. It's shields up.
 And he says, "So he goes to shields up and he figures this out."
 He starts listening to the podcast.
 He realizes the security consultant has effectively just been parroting back,
 parroting back the contents of the podcast to him.
 In fact, knows nothing about security, but he has used security now to get the job.
 He's got a good memory.
 He's got a, well, not good enough because he can't do it in conversation,
 but he's good at cutting pace, I guess.
 So he's not understanding it, but he's listening to it.
 He's listening to it.
 So anyway, I just want you to know, we reach far and wide with this podcast,
 and if you are a security, if you're pretending to be a security expert based on what Steve says,
 it's good material, but you might want to do some extra research to really bolster your knowledge, you know?
 Or maybe listen to each one a few times.
 A few times.
 Memorize.
 That's the key.
 Understand.
 So when we did our one about the net stat, how the net stat command works,
 there was a bunch of dialogue in various forums and things that I happen to see saying,
 you know, you'll get much more out of it if you sit down in front of a computer
 and type along with Steve and Leo.
 Type along with Steve.
 Well, people used to do that, we know that we're watching tech TV
 when they were watching the screen savers, because we'd have to be very careful not to give out
 the URL of a site until we'd actually loaded it.
 Well, mine, you know, whenever you would talk about shields up, it would just, back in the old days,
 when I had my bandwidth was only on a couple T1s, it would just, I mean, it was the so-called
 slash dot effect, where it would just collapse my site.
 People were watching and typing in those URLs as we set them, which is very interesting.
 Well, you never know how long they're going to stay on the screen.
 Just like, "Oh, my God, you better type that in."
 That might be.
 So, last week we started a series on virtualization, and we really kind of more talked about the history
 and the concept behind virtualization than modern applications, and we are going to get back to that.
 Well, actually, there was a little bit of a rata from last week, too.
 Some sharp-eared listeners caught me in a mistake that this really made me grin,
 because whenever I'm talking about hard drive sizes,
 I have to consciously say, like I'm talking about old school,
 I have to consciously say 10 megabytes, because everything's gigabytes now.
 We're three orders of magnitude beyond where we were then.
 I slipped like that all the time.
 Anybody who's been around for a while was going to make that slip.
 Well, and I did, because I was talking about how Bill Gates was quite sure when he released
 the original DOS and was working with IBM on the design of the first PC
 that we would never be needing more than 640 megabytes.
 Oh, no, he said 640K.
 Exactly. 640K, which was 10 times what the Apple II had.
 The Apple II, of course, being the competition at the time.
 That's right.
 It was 48, but then you could add like a soft card and some RAM expansion.
 So it sort of had a 64K addressing space, and so, oh, 10 times that 640K
 who would need more than that.
 Right, right.
 And then the other thing I forgot was that someone refreshed my memory.
 We talked about a couple of the early DOS-based sort of VM-ish utilities,
 quarter deck with desk view.
 Thank you.
 Oh, you mean the...
 The actual applications.
 The applications, yeah, yeah. And then, of course, IBM had top view,
 which really never got off the landing pad or launching pad.
 But someone reminded me of the utility that was the one that I actually used,
 which was called Software Carousel.
 Oh.
 And it was... I used it because it was even cleaner than the other two.
 All it did was I think you did like Alt-2 or Alt-3,
 and it just instantly swapped you to like a brand new DOS.
 And, you know, it used all the memory mapping that we had at the time
 with extended and expanded memory, and just gave you just the ability
 to just completely switch DOSs, and so you'd have different things running
 in different ones, and you could like preload them at boot,
 and it was just a great little utility.
 So, you know, marketing back to the old days.
 But anyways, as you were saying, we're not going to do that today.
 Exactly.
 We're going to save that for next week.
 Actually, a week after, because we have two.
 Next week is one of our Mod 4, but it's a very...
 It's a special Mod 4.
 It is.
 It's number 52.
 Oh, and why is that?
 Because there's 52 cards.
 It's our anniversary.
 Oh, it's our one-year anniversary.
 Yeah, 52 weeks in the year.
 We've not taken a single week off.
 Wow, that's amazing.
 So, okay, yeah, next year, one-year anniversary, one-year anniversary,
 and questions and answers.
 And then events allowing will do a continued virtualization
 the following week in episode 53.
 But this week, there's something a little more topical
 that you wanted to cover.
 Yeah, really, you know, as we've said before,
 when something comes up that is, you know, within our purview,
 it's even though we've got some plans.
 We'll catch back up with those plans.
 Something really caught my attention this week.
 I mean, it really flabbergasted me.
 Back when I was originally reading Microsoft's Vista plans,
 you know, their marketing sheet about, you know, all the new stuff.
 And, you know, you do that with each Microsoft OS that's coming out.
 One of the items there, one of their bullet points was, you know,
 brand new networking stack offering support for new protocols.
 Blah, blah, blah.
 Well, I mean, okay, I just blew that off.
 They always say that, and it's never true.
 You know, I mean, remember we should explain before you go too far.
 What a networking stack is and what it does.
 Well, we'll definitely do that.
 Okay.
 We're going to get to that.
 All right.
 Yeah, but for example, you know, with Windows 2000 and mostly with XP,
 you know, they had the same sort of thing.
 But it was clear to any of us who know Microsoft and know Windows
 that XP was, you know, just, it was Windows 2000.
 They added some nice green rolling hills and a blue and green candy coating.
 But it was, I mean, it was obviously still Windows 2000.
 I mean, they really hadn't changed that much.
 And of course, that's where the raw sockets happened was the Windows 2000
 raw sockets.
 You know, they put the candy coating around it to give it to my mom,
 but left a bunch of other stuff there.
 Right.
 So, so I just, I didn't think twice about Microsoft's claim
 that Vista would have a brand new networking stack.
 Well, until I discovered a report from Symantec where two of their engineers
 took a look at, at like four, I think three or four different beta versions
 of Windows.
 Actually, it was three different beta versions and there's a fourth one since
 and poked at it and discovered it really is brand new written from scratch.
 Now, that's significant.
 This seems like a good idea.
 Especially given all the problems we've had with the old one.
 Well, people are generally of the feeling that something new is good.
 New is better.
 But exactly.
 It's like, you know, oh, that's upgrade.
 Well, of course, patching is a good thing to do.
 Right.
 But, but the problem with security is that fresh is really not what you
 want your code to be fresh code when it needs to be secure.
 Right.
 And, and it's interesting because there were rumors at the time of Windows
 2000's release about where did Microsoft get that stack?
 Because, you know, there was 95 and 98 and NT and then Windows 2000.
 Well, Windows 2000 really did appear to be a different networking stack
 than Microsoft had.
 But it just, it was born fully mature.
 It was, I mean, it was, it was a really good networking stack from day one.
 And you just don't get that.
 I mean, all of the security problems that have been solved years and years ago
 were like already fixed in this stack.
 And, and there were rumors that Microsoft lifted it from one of the open source BSDs.
 Boy.
 That, that's where it came from.
 And I, I can't remember whether it was Net BSD or Open BSD.
 I don't think it was free BSD.
 But, you know, there was a strong suspicion just based on the behavior.
 You know how there are, there are network fingerprinting tools or OS fingerprinting
 tools, though they will send a bunch of specially crafted packets at a machine.
 And based on really subtle differences in the way it responds, they're able to
 determine what kind of operating system is, is at the other end.
 And map is, is, is the classic example.
 Well, Windows 2000 was responding exactly like one of the BSDs at the time.
 And, and it worked really well.
 I mean, it was like ready to go.
 So I was like, okay, well, you know, and of course, as we know Windows 2000 was,
 was the first OS that had raw sockets.
 And of course the BSDs being Unix's have always had raw sockets.
 So there were just, there were many things that Windows suddenly inherited in Windows
 2000.
 We don't know, I mean, I have no proof of evidence, but it was strange.
 And in fact, the lesson we're seeing with Vista actually leads more credence to the
 notion that maybe Microsoft got the Windows 2000 stack from somewhere because
 Vista's stack is a disaster.
 Oh, oh.
 Well, let's, let's, so that's our subject of the day.
 Yep.
 Yep.
 Vista's disaster stack.
 What did you call it?
 I call, well, Vista actually has a virgin stack.
 Vista's virgin stack.
 Now, I guess we better step back a little bit because I don't know.
 I mean, I don't know.
 I've heard, you know, TCP stack.
 I've heard, you know, all of this.
 But what is it?
 And what does it do?
 Well, the term stack, as it sounds, refers to a stack of layers.
 And networking people talk about networking layers because it's extremely convenient
 to think of networks in terms of layers.
 And of course, there's the famous OSI model of layers where it talks about like the lowest
 layer is the electrical link layer, the sort of a link layer.
 Then you've got, you know, basically a set of layers going from the electrical wire
 connections all the way up to high-end application usage.
 And basically, the idea is that each layer in this stack does one sort of thing.
 Well, we've talked over the last, literally over the last year about how Internet packets
 are encapsulated within each other.
 How you'll have an Ethernet header which routes this packet which on the outside is an Ethernet
 packet.
 Then, inside of that, sort of encapsulated in that, you'll have an IP header with its
 payload.
 And then within that, you'll have the protocol header, ICMP, TCP, UDP, whatever.
 So, it's sort of like nested layers of data.
 Well, the stack essentially interprets those nests of buffers in exactly the same way.
 The lowest level of the stack in the case of an Ethernet system deals with the Ethernet layer.
 The Ethernet layer accepts the packet, removes the envelope that it contains, and then passes
 that which would be the IP envelope up to the next layer in the stack, which says, "Oh,
 I'm the IP layer, I know how to read IP packets."
 If it does whatever it needs to do with the information in the IP header, then takes that
 off and passes the internal data, the protocol, up to the next layer in the stack, which is
 the protocol layer.
 So, essentially, packets are unwrapped by envelope like nested envelopes with each layer in
 the stack dealing with the contents of the previous layer's data.
 It makes sense.
 It's kind of a parallel of the stack itself.
 Oh, it's beautiful.
 I mean, it's elegant and it's symmetrical.
 So, for example, the same thing happens in reverse direction.
 When the OS wants to send data out, it sends the data down the stack.
 Each layer takes what it gets from the layer above, encapsulates that with its own layer
 data.
 So, the protocol layer takes the actual data and wraps a protocol around it, TCP or UDP
 or whatever, hands it down to the IP layer that adds the IP layer stuff around it, then
 hands it down to the Ethernet layer.
 The link layer encapsulates it with Ethernet data and finally sends it out on the wire.
 When it finally gets to wherever it goes, that process is reversed to essentially bubble
 the inner core of the data of these nested dolls all the way back up to the application
 at the other end.
 So, it's complicated, but it just works beautifully and it's very flexible because in this layered
 architecture, for example, you could have different specific layers if your destination was not,
 for example, Ethernet, but maybe token ring or PPPOE, point-to-point protocol over Ethernet
 or other protocol.
 So, this notion of encapsulation is why we have layers and so the layers, collectively,
 are referred to as a stack.
 It makes perfect sense.
 I follow that.
 It's beautiful.
 It's worked so well and stood the test of time because it's modular, it's inherently modular
 and it subjects itself to being changed and evolved very nicely.
 So, all network communications goes through the stack?
 Yes.
 It's the portal into your computer.
 Yeah.
 It's like one of the major, well, for any internet connected machine, any Unix machine, any modern
 Windows machine, anything that's going to be doing internet stuff, somewhere there's a stack,
 and that's fundamental to the systems operation.
 All right.
 So, it seems sensible that you'd want to improve a stack as new protocols came out or maybe
 you found bugs or maybe you could make it more efficient.
 So, writing a new stack doesn't seem like such a big deal.
 Well, the problem is it is incredibly complex.
 In terms of security, we talk about maturity because the classic example was in the summer
 before Windows XP was released.
 For the first time, of course, I was arguing with Microsoft about the raw sockets issue,
 but Microsoft was saying Windows XP was going to be the most secure operating system they
 had ever made.
 Well, that sounds familiar.
 I've heard that phrase about existence as a matter of fact.
 Well, exactly.
 But any security person would listen to that and just, you know, roll their eyes and shake
 their head.
 Because you don't really want new.
 You want proven by the test of time.
 You want something that's banged on.
 Well, what it actually is is that it's fundamentally illogical.
 I mean, it's impossible to say something is going to be the most secure.
 Because you don't even know yet.
 It's a non-sequitur.
 The way the world works is security is proven.
 It is not claimed.
 And so claiming security means nothing.
 And, of course, we know that Windows XP was the least secure operating system Microsoft
 ever produced.
 I mean, it was worm land on the Internet.
 And we've lived through that for the last five years.
 Yes.
 And what's really interesting is, OK, finally, service pack two, firewalls on, all these
 problems have been found.
 Now we can all take a big deep breath.
 Well, the bad news is Vista is the most secure operating system Microsoft has ever made.
 And they're starting from scratch.
 Well, and not only that, they are really starting from scratch.
 What the Symantec report did, these two guys at Symantec took these early betas.
 And I want to make sure everyone understands we're not talking about production Vista.
 So this is just beta code behavior.
 And, in fact, also to be fair, Symantec has a vested interest in insecurity because they
 make security programs.
 Well, it's worth mentioning, yes, that Symantec is not happy with Microsoft.
 There is a lawsuit they filed several months ago claiming that Microsoft has stolen their
 trade secret information.
 There was some sort of license deal that Microsoft had with Veritas.
 That limited what they could do.
 And apparently Microsoft has used that as the foundation for new stuff in XP and in Vista.
 And Symantec, I mean, they've tried to resolve their problems amicably.
 They're going to let the attorneys do it now.
 So they are fighting on that front.
 But also, exactly as you say, Leo, Microsoft is clearly, I mean, and this was foreseeable.
 Getting into the anti spyware and anti virus business big time, which is going to be a big
 problem for Symantec.
 So, yes, Symantec has some interest in Microsoft not being secure.
 But the report was very well written.
 I mean, these guys, and you've got a link to it on your show notes.
 I've got a link to it on mine also on the security now page.
 People can take a look at the full PDF of the report if they're interested.
 And the guys were very fair.
 I mean, they really explained that they understand that these are betas.
 And they talked about problems that they watched being solved along the way that earlier betas
 had that had been fixed in later betas.
 And even the publication of this document may improve the stack because all of these issues
 that they raise, Microsoft can now fix.
 Okay.
 Now, okay.
 For example, remember a couple of weeks ago, within the last couple of weeks, I talked
 about a ridiculous, really old problem that was almost funny where you would send a spoofed
 packet to Windows claiming that it came from that same machine.
 It's called the Land Attack, where the source and the Destiny P are both the same as that
 machines.
 And it would just cause the stack to freak out and collapse because it thought it was receiving
 something from itself.
 So it would answer to itself and just melt down.
 Yeah.
 Well, Vista does that.
 No.
 Now, was this something that was patched and it fixed in XP?
 No.
 This was fixed in Windows 95.
 Oh boy.
 Oh boy.
 No, that's what we're talking about.
 Oh boy.
 That's just it, Leo.
 We're talking about all the same mistakes that have been fixed in all prior Windows stacks,
 finally, and in all other mature stacks are now back in Vista.
 Why?
 Well, okay.
 Now, I mean, it wouldn't be that be kind of almost a textbook thing when you're, you
 know, when writing a stack, make sure you don't do this.
 We learned this 15 years ago.
 And that's just the problem is that yes, it's going to be pounded on.
 These things are going to be fixed.
 And in fact, this problem was present initially and was fixed in a later bill.
 Oh good.
 When someone tried it.
 You know, the good news is we have lots of security tools now that have been developed
 to nail these problems.
 However, this, this absolutely proves that this is a brand new stack.
 Because it would be fixed in any mature stack would obviously have this problem.
 It is fixed in every other mature stack.
 Right.
 Yes.
 They definitely didn't borrow this from somebody else unless they borrowed it from the Windows
 95 development team.
 I mean, it, they're saying that it was time to start over.
 Now, I respect that because, you know, over time code evolves.
 It gets very patchy.
 I mean, that's why the Apache server is called Apache because it's basically a whole bunch
 of patches.
 So it makes sense to say, okay, time out.
 We need to start over.
 One of the things that the Vista stack incorporates is IPv6 support natively in the stack.
 And no earlier stack would have that, probably.
 Well, exactly.
 For example, XP and even Windows 2003, if you want IPv6 support, you add it as an add-on
 to the existing technology.
 So Microsoft has had IPv6 around.
 Now they're building it in from scratch.
 There are also a number of other protocols.
 As you may know, Microsoft's Vista will be adding native peer-to-peer support with
 NAT traversal built-in.
 These technologies that, you know, for example, Skype and other peer-to-peer technologies
 have been using in order to be able to get machines to talk to each other are being built-in.
 So there's a lot of new stuff.
 And Microsoft made the decision, you know, bit the bullet to say, okay, we don't want to keep
 dragging our aging, creaky stack forward.
 We're going to start again.
 The problem is nothing could be worse for security.
 Yeah.
 For example, there are the stack response to unknown protocols with an ICMP message saying,
 I don't know what that is.
 For example, TCP is protocol 6, UDP is protocol 17.
 There's a byte in the protocol header that identifies what the protocol is.
 And so it's polite if a packet is received that's for a protocol that the stack doesn't have
 anyone to send the packet upwards through its layers to, for it to send back an ICMP message.
 Remember, we've talked about ICMP as sort of being like the plumbing management.
 So when a packet comes in that is for an unknown protocol, it's nice if the stack sends back
 a note saying, gee, I don't know what that is.
 Got anything else.
 The problem with doing that is that it means it's trivial to probe the stack to find out
 what protocols it does support.
 What do you do?
 Yeah.
 Exactly.
 Well, the guys did that and they found a bunch of interesting unknown protocols.
 So they sent some random data to one.
 Boom!
 Blue screen of data.
 Oh, no.
 Oh, geez.
 I mean, it's like, oh, what?
 What next?
 But that's easy to fix.
 And it will be fixed.
 Those are easy things to fix.
 I'm sure that Microsoft has read Symantec's report.
 And in fact, in the later developer version, after the build that was made public, that was
 the last thing these guys fixed, more of these things have been fixed.
 But what I want to stress here is that we now know for sure that Microsoft has written a
 new stack from scratch.
 And anyone in the industry will tell you, this is not Symantec, you know, crying wool
 for the sky is falling, anyone will tell you that a networking stack is so complex that
 it takes years to mature.
 And while Microsoft has the advantage to some degree of us having a strong sense for how
 to fix all the old known problems, we have no idea yet what new problems this stack is
 going to have that no other stack ever had.
 Not only has Microsoft recreated many known problems, but there are going to be, in fact,
 there is one brand new problem that never existed before.
 There's something called IP options where it allows additional data to be enclosed at
 the IP level of networking traffic.
 And what you have is in the IP options, you've got a size of the options that tells the system
 okay, here we've got some option data and it's this long.
 So then, so jump over that, this many bytes to get to the next piece of data in the packet.
 Well, it turns out in Vista, if you set the size of options to zero, it says jump over
 zero bytes, so it lands where it is, does it again loops and then lands where it is and
 loops permanently, it locks up the system to hard and requires a full reset.
 Now, Vista's the betas of people have been using, of course, is full of bugs.
 That's why they're in beta tests.
 So you're not saying that these problems will persist, but merely that a new stack is an
 untested stack.
 And of course, there's a lot of concern about Vista's security.
 I mean, the spotlight is on Microsoft now.
 They need to put out a secure operating system, but Leo, you can't because it hasn't been
 tested.
 Yes, but by definition, you nothing brand new is secure.
 Now they are doing the world's largest beta test.
 They're sending out 2 million copies of Vista.
 Of course, most people won't be testing the security of it, but I presume some security
 experts will be working on it.
 Yeah.
 Oh, I'm there.
 There's no doubt about it.
 I guess my point is I'm not here again like the semantic guys to cry wolf or say this guy
 is falling.
 We don't know yet.
 Yes.
 When I'm using XP on a couple laptops that I recently got toward the end of last year,
 I'm still using Windows 2000 as my main platform, Windows 2000 as GRC's server platform.
 And that is, by the way, running out of time because Microsoft's not going to support it
 anymore.
 Right.
 I try to consider using Windows 2003, but it was just a well, well, you know, the interesting
 thing is that I was my understanding that much of Vista was based on 2003 server, but
 I guess the stack is not.
 I guess it's clear.
 It's clear that it's not.
 There are so many mistakes in the current stat in the current beta stack.
 It's very discouraging, frankly.
 It prove it demonstrates that this is new, that Microsoft told the truth this time when
 they said all new, brand new, whatever fresh or any code.
 I mean, it is a virgin untested code.
 Yeah.
 And so, you know, anyway, the point I was making about XP was that it wasn't until several
 years after the release of XP that we had service pack two and it was a new stack.
 Exactly.
 Yeah.
 And, and all the new stuff in XP was badly broken in ways that no beta testing found,
 no early testers found late problems were discovered by people really looking closely.
 Well, because Windows is a natural target.
 It's so dominant.
 There's so many installations that every hacker in the world is, is most interested
 in compromising Windows.
 So Vista will immediately come under attack.
 Very serious heart attack from, from top flight hackers all over the world.
 The minute it ships, well, and I would argue that it, it isn't, it isn't even Microsoft's
 fault that this is a problem.
 I mean, Microsoft is taking responsibility for these problems.
 Microsoft made the decision.
 I'm sure a tough decision, probably, well, I don't want to say unwise, but they made
 a tough decision to scrap their networking architecture and write a whole new one.
 I'm sure they felt they had two for various reasons.
 Yeah.
 I mean, they, they talk about performance.
 Not something wanted to take lightly.
 I mean, they, they, they must have felt they needed to.
 They talk about performance and stability and extendability.
 I mean, what they had was probably getting old.
 Apparently, the current stack underperforms the new one.
 That's maybe it's, it's, you know, debugging code and beta code and they'll, they'll, they'll
 be able to trim it and prune it and, and make it better.
 I mean, I, I like the idea of them making the hard choice to drop what they had.
 But all I want to really the message of this episode is, is, is a couple.
 One is that you cannot, no one can claim something is secure ahead of time.
 You can say, we hope it's secure.
 We, we really, really want this to be secure.
 But it's, it's, it's only years of battle hardening that is going to make this to secure.
 So, so listeners of security now who are obviously on the security awareness leading edge, you
 know, along with us are, I would say, we'll certainly want to play with Vista.
 I would be very careful and skeptical of it for quite a while.
 And until we see what's going to be happening, Leo, if, if you and I have been doing security
 now four, five years ago, when XP was coming out, you know, we would have been busy.
 Yeah.
 And we will be doing security.
 But we'll be busy here in a couple of months.
 Yes.
 Well, and see, that's the other horrifying thing is I understand it.
 They're talking about, um, Vista, maybe January of '07, which is, as you said, in a few months.
 Well, in order for OEMs to have it, we know how the whole routine goes.
 So in a couple of months to get to the gold master, they need to, it needs to be golden
 and frozen in order to get into production for OEMs to have copies for integration to
 happen.
 Well, and they promised enterprise that it would be available by December.
 So we're talking in the next two months and Leo just, just last week, it was like locking
 up a growing blue screen when you sent some data to a certain protocol.
 Yeah.
 Okay, when, I mean, I can't imagine that it's either going to be stable or they're going
 to ship it on time.
 It almost to me, based on the rate at which these problems are being fixed and the fact
 that the networking stack still has serious problems now, you think, okay, uh, this thing
 just, this thing, just, well, at least this part, they're going to ship.
 They have to ship and they will ship and the, I guess the advice we're going to be really
 busy is to pull off.
 Don't be the first upgrade to Vista.
 We will be busy.
 You know, I'm going to be, I'm giving, uh, in, uh, February 3rd through 10th, I'm going
 on a geek cruise PC world is sponsoring PC paradise and I'm giving two classes in Vista
 security.
 So I can't hold off nor can you, Steve Gibson, we will be getting Vista machines.
 It's funny you mention that because I was just thinking, I mean, I, I just ignored XP.
 We can't.
 For, for, for years.
 Sorry, dude.
 Um, and, and, and you know, the only reason I had one around was so that I could do screenshots
 of my applications running on XP.
 So the windows had the candy coating on them, right?
 Rather than my windows 2000, you know, that, that looks more like you don't have the luxury
 this time.
 No, I don't.
 No, I don't.
 But we'll take a bullet so that you don't have to, folks.
 Well, and again, I'm not saying don't, don't upgrade.
 Don't use it.
 Maybe, you know, set it up as a dual boot.
 And so, you know, go over, boot that one sometimes on the weekends, you know, but don't shift
 your whole office.
 Oh, it's, you know, or don't do it soon.
 It's going to be, I, I, we're going to be busy later.
 I'll have a lot to talk about.
 Um, well, Steve, I really, uh, thank you for this kind of a warning.
 And again, you know, all of this claimers, semantic has a vested interest in this that
 is beta code.
 But I think you're underscoring, which is the fundamental problem and that every programmer,
 certainly anybody who's done a network programming understands is that this stuff is hard.
 It's hard to make it secure.
 It's hard to do it from scratch.
 And they started over.
 And I mean, and it's not, and they, and they're making all the same mistakes that, that, that
 that's a little discouraging.
 Oh, they should know, they should, there should be a manual somewhere that says, oh, by the
 way, guys, don't do this.
 They should know that they should know that it's just going to be a hacker.
 Oh, it's very scary.
 Well, you know where to go to find out what's going on.
 And I think as I, as we get closer to Vista, we're going to go, of course, do more and
 more VISTA coverage, not only on this podcast, but on all our podcasts, um, and on my radio
 show and so forth.
 And we'll talk a lot more about this.
 And I think it's just, you know, uh, something that, uh, maybe this podcast will become less
 educational in the next six months and more.
 Uh, here's what's happening this week.
 Well, you know, we'll do it if we have to, you know, we're going to pick up our, we're
 going to pick up our series on virtual machines.
 So people, and, and specifically on sandboxing, uh, using virtual machines to prevent bad behavior
 from getting out of the sandbox.
 That's where we're going to be going in the next few weeks.
 This would be the perfect way to do Vista.
 Well, running Vista in a sandbox is probably going to make a lot of sense.
 As far as I know, parallels doesn't yet support Vista, uh, I'm not sure whether Microsoft's
 virtual PC, which they're giving away for free does.
 I'm sure VMware will by the time the, uh, Vista ships.
 So there will actually, I, uh, we'll have to check, but I think they're virtual, the,
 the free thing they're giving away is only something that runs on top of their server
 platform.
 Ah, I think it's the, it's virtual PC server 2003 RC two or something.
 I thought they were giving away the, the basic one as well.
 They changed their, they changed their plan.
 We'll find out.
 We'll find out.
 But we'll talk about that.
 In fact, we're going to interview, uh, one of the kings of virtualization, I hope.
 I hope so.
 Yeah.
 We're looking forward to that.
 So, uh, I hope you have learned a thing or two.
 My eyes are wide open here a little, I, I, a little scared.
 I couldn't believe it.
 I just thought, Oh yeah.
 Marketing propaganda.
 All, all new stack.
 No, this one really is this one really is Vista's Lord, Lord help us.
 We encourage you to check out of course, g, uh, grc.com that's Steve's site.
 That's where you'll find 16 kilobit versions of the show.
 We'll also find, uh, transcripts thanks to the wonderful little lane who does such a
 great job making it, uh, making our words intelligible.
 And, uh, Steve's great spin right, which is the ultimate discovery utility and a must.
 If you deal with hard drives, not just for recovery, but for maintenance.
 I think people, you know, I think we've been underscoring the recovery because I think a
 lot of people use it for maintenance and didn't realize it is as good as you can get
 in recovery.
 But don't forget is a great way to keep your hard drives working, uh, smoothly for a long
 time.
 I think what happens is most people buy it because they have a disaster and then, and
 then they realize, wait a minute, had I been running spin right every, you know, quarter,
 for example, every three or four months, or when something maybe sort of seems a little
 strange in the computer, it's slowed down or delaying or something, they realize, Hey,
 I could just do this to keep the problems from happening.
 And spin right does that because it shows the drive, the problems that the drive has
 and helps the drive correct.
 I was talking on the radio show the other day about smart monitoring and really I haven't
 had much results, much success with this smart monitoring.
 Most drives are smart drives now, but I don't find that those monitors are particularly
 useful.
 I suggested the best way to know if a drive is going to fail is use spin right.
 Spin right has a really kind of fun little tool that shows how many corrections is it
 per second or per minute?
 It's actually per megabyte per megabyte.
 Yeah, as spin rights moving along, what it does is it dynamically reads the sort of private
 smart data that most drives publish to the, to the API, the smart API spin right sees
 how many corrections are occurring from the time it last looked to the time it looks now,
 it then looks at how much data it has read from the drive and, and computes the number
 of corrections per megabyte so that you're able to see over the long term, if that number
 starts going up suddenly, that tells you your drive is getting into trouble way before it
 actually dies.
 It's a, it's the best warning and I don't know of any smart monitor utility that'll
 tell you this only spin right.
 Well, there's nothing that there's nothing else that can because it only makes sense to,
 to look at that when the drive is doing work.
 So only when the drive is under load and spin right puts a calibrated load on the drive
 in order to watch how hard it's having to work.
 Sometimes I want to talk about it because it's fascinating.
 I mean, I didn't realize that the error correction technology that's built into drives is actually
 active all the time.
 Drives are making mistakes constantly.
 I mean, hundreds of mistakes at a megabyte is thousands are normal, right?
 Yeah.
 I mean, it used to be in the old days that ECC error correction code was only brought
 into play to deal with a defect.
 But data is so dense now relative to our ability to produce absolutely perfect magnetic recording
 services.
 We, we, you know, we just can't at some level our ability to, to make perfect recording
 surfaces fails, data that the actual bits are down now at the size of that failure.
 So error correction is being employed all the time.
 Just a standard operating procedure instead of being an exceptional case.
 It's really remarkable.
 It's, it's, it's, well, I mean, look at the size, look at the, the, the incredible amount
 of data.
 There are now on the shelves at Fries 500 gig drive.
 See, I, I chew those, I, I buy smaller drives and multiple drives rather than buy one big
 drive.
 Actually, it scares me the aerial, we're, we're, we're old dogs.
 I, I'm the same way what, when I call my, my computer guy to order drives, I said, okay,
 what's the smallest Mac store drive you guys still can get for me?
 Right.
 Cause I just, you know, it's like, uh, you can combine them or whatever, but you don't,
 you know, it's just, uh, I mean, 500 gig.
 It's scary.
 That's a, that's very dense.
 We want to thank our sponsor, Astarro Corporation, makers of the Astarro security gateway.
 I mean, when it comes to security, as you can tell, the no half measures, uh, will do.
 And if you're smaller, medium business needs superior protection based on well known, tried
 and true open source technology, you get protected from spam from viruses from hackers, complete
 VPN capabilities, intrusion protection, content filtering, and an industrial strength firewall
 on a very easy to use high performance appliance contact, Astarro, A S T, A R O dot com, or you
 can call eight, seven, seven, the number four, Astarro, you can schedule a free trial on
 Astarro security gateway appliance in your business.
 And of course, non-business users, as always can download the software version of ASG for
 home use at Astarro dot com.
 And I do recommend that it's a great solution, really, really good A S T A R O dot com.
 Steve Gibson, next week, it's mod four and our anniversary.
 And what are we going to do?
 I'll make you a cake.
 I don't know.
 We'll have to think of something.
 Maybe your wife.
 Sorry?
 No, I'm not giving you my wife.
 No, no, I know.
 My wife will make the cake.
 Yes, she's much better baker than we have to, we have to draw a line somewhere.
 I'm sorry, Steve.
 This is, uh, this is a great, uh, a great anniversary.
 I can't wait to celebrate it.
 It's been a wonderful year.
 And I think we now know it's going to be a very interesting year.
 So we're not going to run out of material, Leo.
 Thanks, Steve.
 We'll see you next time.
 Okay.
 Take care.
 On security now.
 Security now.
 Security now.
 Security now.
