 ♪♪
 NetCasts you love.
 From people you trust.
 ♪♪
 This is Twit.
 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by
 CashFly at C-A-C-H-E-F-L-Y.com.
 ♪♪
 This is Security Now, episode 540
 for Tuesday, December 29, 2015.
 vitamin D.
 Hey everybody, you may be hearing me,
 but I know you're not seeing me.
 That's because this is our year-end
 security now, and as always,
 we like to do a previous episode,
 and this was kind of a special one
 in which Steve talks about his discoveries
 related to vitamin D,
 and why he all, he thinks we all
 should be taking more vitamin D.
 Now here's the thing.
 This episode's from 2009,
 right before we started doing video.
 Security Now was one of our last video shows.
 Steve resisted it for a long time,
 saying, "Who wants to see video?"
 Well, you're all used to it now,
 but you're not gonna get video of this show,
 so even those of you on the video feed
 will get something, but not.
 I'm sorry to say pictures of Steve
 declaiming about vitamin D.
 You're gonna enjoy this episode.
 Steve Gibson, vitamin D.
 Next, happy holidays.
 We'll see you in the new year.
 It's time for security now,
 the show that covers all things,
 secure privacy and such,
 with our great friend, mentor,
 and security guru, Steve Gibson.
 Hey, Steve.
 Well, usually that's what we cover.
 No security today?
 Well, no, we've got a bunch of news,
 and we're gonna run through the news
 of the week, things that are important
 and impacting our listeners,
 but this is the first episode.
 This is number 209, the first episode of year five,
 and we're gonna do something different this week,
 and only this week,
 I don't wanna worry and freak out our listeners,
 but something has really come onto my radar
 that I almost feel I have an obligation
 just to share once.
 I mean, I'm taking action on it with myself,
 my friends, my family,
 everyone who's important to me,
 and so our listeners are important to me,
 and I want to, if nothing else,
 sort of plant a seed that may take root,
 that it may be a couple of years from now,
 when they hear something else,
 it's like, oh, now I know that's important,
 whereas I might tend to think,
 well, Gibson's not a doctor,
 so what does he know about this?
 And I'm not, I'm just a sort of a health hobbyist.
 - As we all should be, since it is our health.
 - Well, yes, exactly, I stumbled on something
 which is, I think, very important.
 I'm not gonna go overboard about it,
 but I wanna just spend this podcast,
 sort of what I've said in my piece,
 and I'm gonna, I've done two months' worth of research
 every day on the issue,
 and I wanna explain what's going on,
 run through some of the studies,
 which have been done,
 I've put together a page on GRC,
 which covers this topic so that,
 everything that I'm talking about,
 I've got links to so people can follow up
 and do additional research, if they're so motivated,
 if not, I completely understand,
 there's a whole spectrum of people,
 from people who just think, oh, well, whatever happens,
 happens to people who are real interventionists
 and taking hundreds of supplements a day,
 and everything in between.
 So, what I can promise is, as always,
 a podcast which is really, I believe,
 will be thought-provoking and interesting
 for anybody who has a body.
 - All right, Steve, why, why, why are you so tan?
 What's going on?
 - Well, okay, to give a little bit of background here,
 everyone who's been listening to this podcast for years
 knows that I focus on code writing
 and computers and technology.
 A hobby of mine, which I've become increasingly focused on
 as I've been aging, is health.
 And in fact, really Leo, it began when I was flying up
 to visit you in Toronto and appear on Canadian TV
 with Roger's cable.
 I'd be at the airport and seeing people who were really,
 I mean, older than I, but not lots older than I,
 who were having trouble moving around.
 They were already being really careful standing up
 and sitting down and moving slowly.
 And I thought, okay, I think at that point,
 I was probably 50 or maybe my very late 40s,
 and today I'm 54.
 And I remember just deciding,
 making a promise with myself that I am not going to be
 that person when I'm that age.
 I mean, and I'm literally willing to do anything it takes
 every single day so that I'm able to jump around
 more or less as I am now as I continue aging.
 And my focus is not on trying to live as long
 as I possibly can.
 I'm really not very focused on that at all.
 I don't care how long I live.
 I mean, you know, more is better.
 But if you think of a chart that shows your quality
 of life over time so that the horizontal axis
 is your life running from birth to death
 and the vertical axis is, you know, how you feel,
 your physical wellbeing.
 You can imagine, you know, somebody who just like,
 I don't know, who smokes their whole life,
 who abuses alcohol and drugs doesn't take care of themselves.
 You know, they might have a relatively, you know,
 like for example, a straight line decline
 from birth to death where they just, you know,
 they don't age well and they're not having a great time
 toward the end of their life.
 My goal would be to keep the slope of that line
 as horizontal as possible.
 That is keep the, you know, keep health up as high
 as I can for as long as I can.
 And then to have it just drop off a cliff, you know,
 kill me in a week when it's finally time.
 But the point is that you want to, you know,
 from a math standpoint, you want to maximize the area
 under that curve.
 You want, you know, because that's the most health
 you can have for the length of time that you're alive.
 So, so my focus on health, which I've now had really
 to a much greater degree since I turned 50
 because there's like, okay, I've got the time,
 I've virtualized GRC, my employees are working at home,
 I'm able to work with a great deal of freedom.
 You know, there's, I have, there's no excuse
 not to exercise, not to, to make sure I'm eating well,
 not to, and not to do some research
 since I've got the internet now, we all do.
 And it's just an amazing, it makes this information
 so much more available.
 So I subscribe to a number of newsletters and,
 and I've been focused on, you know,
 various aspects of health.
 I pretty much knew about cardio, you know,
 years and years ago and I've tried to keep myself in shape.
 And what happened about maybe about three months ago
 was I just sort of bumped on the radar screen
 where various mentions of vitamin D,
 which was not something I'd ever looked at or thought about.
 I was actually more aware of things like the B vitamins
 and, and their importance because, you know,
 food, modern food processing tends to kill
 off the B vitamins, they're fragile.
 So food is fortified basically to put back in
 what, what, what processing kills.
 And, you know, I knew about E and C and,
 but somehow vitamin D had never,
 this is something I had never really looked at very much.
 But I finally got to a point a couple months ago
 where it's like, okay, well, what's going on with this?
 And so I began to poke around and do some reading.
 And I thought, wait, whoa, wait a minute.
 This is seeming much more significant than,
 than I recognized.
 And probably about four weeks ago,
 so about four weeks into this,
 I decided that, you know, this was,
 this was something that I,
 that I really needed to understand.
 And I also at some point figured I need to involve
 my family and friends and ultimately this podcast.
 So just for one week, I need to beg our listeners indulgence.
 I'm going to, I want to share what I have learned
 and see if, you know, for the sake of information,
 maybe it will resonate with some people,
 maybe at some point in the future,
 when other information surfaces,
 it'll go, hey, wait a minute.
 I remember Steve talking about this, you know,
 he thought it was important.
 These other people think it's important, you know,
 maybe that will, will, you know, be enough to,
 to catalyze some thought.
 So there's, there's so much that's important about this.
 First of all, there's a real problem with it
 in that it's not a vitamin at all.
 Never was, never has been.
 What is, what is a vitamin?
 What is a, what is the definition of a vitamin?
 By definition, a vitamin is something which you,
 you, you do not make endogenously that as you do,
 your body does not make it.
 It's something from, from that you must acquire
 through nutrition from outside sources.
 It's an amino acid too, right?
 Isn't that what it means?
 Vital amino acid?
 Maybe not real where the word comes from.
 But I, but I do know that it's got to be a dietary source.
 Well, what happened was that it was discovered
 because of a chronic deficiency in an unknown substance
 as, as we became more industrialized
 and people moved from rural settings into cities
 and especially as children were employed in buildings
 like in, in factories, they began getting rickets
 which is a, a severe, you know, underdevelopment
 of skeletal bones.
 Now, what happened was that there was that the discovery
 that cod liver oil cured this malady that, that children had.
 And so for generations, you know, parents, mothers
 would like forced their kids to have a tablespoon
 of cod liver oil.
 I remember that from the three stooges.
 Yeah.
 Our gang.
 Our nasty oily tasting stuff.
 You really don't want it, but you know,
 but because it turns out that it's vitamin,
 this thing called vitamin D and it's, it's such a shame
 that it's been lumped in with the vitamins
 because it is a steroid hormone.
 Really?
 It is a, it is a, it is the most powerful steroid hormone
 in the human body.
 It is so powerful that when measured the,
 the units of measurement of the active form
 and I'll explain what the metabolic process is in a second,
 but the metabolic form is measured in pico grams per milliliter.
 That is, you know, we have grams,
 then we have milligrams as a thousandth,
 micrograms as a millionth,
 nanograms as a billionth, pico grams is a trillionth.
 So it's on the order of 20 to 50 trillionths of a gram
 in our blood, I mean, amazingly little of this goes a long way.
 But it is found in almost no dietary sources.
 That is we cannot get D from our diet.
 It turns out that, that fatty fish is a source of D,
 but where it comes from, the way we get it is from the sun
 and which is, which I think is really interesting
 because the, the first known application
 for vitamin D and really the only,
 the only place where it has received lots of attention
 is in our bodies calcium metabolism.
 You know, it's, it's, it's generally felt that,
 that all life on earth came from the seas.
 First started in the oceans, evolved in the oceans, you know,
 and then literally crawled out onto land and needed to adapt.
 Well, the ocean is, is a rich calcium bath.
 And so calcium is a, is a fundamental component of,
 of, you know, the way we operate.
 And our bodies, the human body manages
 and maintains the concentration of calcium
 to the best of its ability within relatively narrow margins.
 We need to have enough calcium from our diet,
 which is, is easy to get,
 but you have to have vitamin D in, in addition to calcium
 in order to build bone.
 D is, is inextricably linked to calcium metabolism.
 And so, but for a long time, for hundreds of years,
 that's the only thing that we knew that it did.
 Well, looking back at sort of early humanity,
 we, we also know that, that we evolved
 in sub-Saharan equatorial East Africa.
 That's where that's sort of the cradle of, of humankind.
 It is believed that, that when we were coming out of,
 of being apes covered with fur,
 that as we evolved to be larger and have more muscle mass,
 we began to have a problem with cooling
 because we were generating our larger muscles,
 we're generating too much heat.
 So evaporative cooling wasn't, it was having a problem
 if we were covered with fur.
 So we, we literally lost our fur in favor of skin
 and, and more evaporative capability.
 The problem with that was that we were then being exposed
 to intense sunlight, which, since our skin
 was no longer being protected by fur.
 So what started out as, as light being lighter skinned,
 we ended up developing a much more rich melanin content.
 Melanin is the pigmentation in skin.
 And so we ended up literally becoming black
 in order to deal with the constant powerful equatorial sun
 in East Africa.
 And so, and the blackness of our skin allowed us
 to tolerate the sun.
 But ever since the beginning, we were also using sun
 that is the ultraviolet radiation for,
 for fundamental chemical reactions,
 which take place in our skin.
 A precursor of cholesterol called 7D hydro cholesterol
 or 7DHC that exists in our skin,
 in abundance in youth.
 And we lose it as we get increasingly older.
 That 7D hydro cholesterol is when it is zapped
 by an ultraviolet photon.
 It converts that 7D hydro cholesterol
 is converted into an early form of what unfortunately,
 we have labeled vitamin D.
 It's not stable in that form.
 And so it shortly changes its bonds around
 and just under thermal isomerization
 converts into something called coly calciferol,
 which is the form of vitamin D
 that you can also get in a supplement.
 That's transported to our liver,
 where our liver changes it through a process
 known as hydroxylation into the vitamin D
 which is measured in our bloodstream,
 something called 25 hydroxy vitamin D.
 And that's sort of the bulk storage form of this chemical.
 Our kidneys takes it the next step further,
 hydroxylates it again and turns it
 into this super potent steroid hormone.
 Now that's involved directly.
 It's that hormone which is involved
 with the regulation of calcium metabolism and our bones.
 It turns out though,
 that many other organ systems in our body
 also have the ability to deal directly with vitamin D.
 And this is the information which is finally
 due to the advancing of our medical science
 finally becoming clear to people.
 I want to shift gears here for a second
 and run through a number of recent studies
 which have been done just to give people some sense
 for the pervasiveness of the influence of this.
 I have a, I'm holding a textbook,
 450 pages titled vitamin D,
 physiology, molecular biology and clinical applications.
 I've read so many journal articles
 and studies that I'm becoming sort of well-versed
 with the names of these people.
 And in fact, if I look at a book,
 a popular text on vitamin D,
 it's like, oh yeah, I know where that chart came from.
 I remember seeing that chart in the original source material.
 - Wow.
 - So this is chapter 13,
 where he's talking about non-calcemic actions
 of 125 D-hydroxy vitamin D3.
 Okay, that's the output from our liver,
 I'm sorry, the output from our kidney,
 the final stage, which is this powerful steroid hormone.
 And he says, under historical perspective,
 when 125 OH2D was discovered,
 it was assumed that specific vitamin D receptors
 would be present in calcium-regulating organs,
 including the intestine, bone and kidney.
 In 1979, Stumpf et al.
 And then he has a reference to the back of the chapter
 where he talks about that study,
 reported on the localization of radio-labeled vitamin D
 in vitamin D deficient tissues
 and found that the radio-labeled vitamin D
 was localized in the nuclei of cells
 in the small intestine, kidney and bone,
 exactly as expected.
 But remarkably, they also found by audio radiographic analysis
 of frozen sections of tissues
 that this radio-tag vitamin D was also present
 in cells in the gonads, thymus, pituitary gland,
 pancreas, stomach, breast, teeth, placenta and skin.
 This observation was the impetus
 for the identification of the vitamin D receptors
 called VDRs, then this is at the genetic level,
 in all of these tissues,
 as well as in several tumor cell lines
 of leukemia, breast cancer, melanoma,
 squamous cell carcinoma, colon cancer and prostate cancer.
 VDR activity was also detected in cells related to immunity,
 including circulating monocytes,
 activated T and B lymphocytes and macrophages,
 which is all part of our way our immune system functions.
 So to give some sense for what is beginning to be understood,
 and I just jumped to chapter 22
 under epidemiology of cancer risk and vitamin D,
 it reads, "A nested case control study
 "was conducted using subjects
 "from the Johns Hopkins Operation Clue cohort.
 "This cohort consisted of 25,620 health adult residents
 "of Washington County Maryland,
 "who provided samples of serum,
 "meaning their blood, between 1974 and 1975,
 "serum samples were thawed for all cases of colon cancer."
 So what happened is decades later, this study was done.
 So serum samples from back in '74, '75 were thawed
 for all cases of colon cancer,
 and for two controls per case,
 meaning other people who did not have colon cancer,
 and matched for age, race, sex, county of residence,
 and date of serum collection.
 Sera, meaning plural of serum, blood samples,
 were analyzed blindly for 25 hydroxy vitamin D.
 Okay, that's that main circulating vitamin D,
 which is what's measured.
 That's the output of the liver
 before it goes into the kidney.
 That's sort of the storage form.
 Individuals whose 25 hydroxy vitamin D levels
 were greater than 20 nanograms per milliliter,
 and I'll talk about these numbers in a second.
 Get this, greater than 20 nanograms per milliliter
 had one third the risk of colon cancer compared with those,
 one third the risk of colon cancer
 compared with those with lower concentrations.
 Okay, so there's one.
 A different study, this is from
 the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 2004,
 reads most to give some context.
 I'll sort of give a little more coming into this.
 Most humans depend on sun exposure
 to satisfy their requirements for vitamin D.
 Solar ultraviolet B photons, that is UVB,
 are absorbed by seven dehydrocholesterol in the skin,
 leading to its transformation to pre-vitamin D3,
 which is rapidly converted to vitamin D3.
 Season, latitude, time of day, skin pigmentation,
 aging, sunscreen use, and glass.
 That is the presence of glass between you and the sun
 since UVB is blocked by glass,
 all influence the cotaneous production of vitamin D3.
 Once formed, vitamin D3 is metabolized in the liver
 to 25 hydroxy vitamin D,
 and then in the kidney to its biologically active form,
 125 dihydroxy vitamin D.
 Vitamin D deficiency is an unrecognized epidemic
 among both children and adults in the United States.
 Vitamin D deficiency not only causes rickets among children,
 but also precipitates and exacerbates osteoporosis
 among adults and causes the painful bone disease,
 osteomylicia.
 Vitamin D deficiency has been associated
 with increased risks of deadly cancers,
 cardiovascular disease, multiple sclerosis,
 rheumatoid arthritis, and type one diabetes melitis.
 Maintaining blood concentrations of 25 hydroxy vitamin D
 above 80 nanomoles per liter,
 which is in the literature,
 sometimes they describe the concentration
 as nanomoles per liter,
 but often also as nanograms per milliliter.
 The conversion is 2.5,
 so 80 nanomoles per liter is about 30 nanograms per milliliter.
 It says not only is the maintenance greater than that
 important for maximizing intestinal calcium absorption,
 but also may be important for providing the extra renal
 one alpha hydroxylase that is present in most tissues
 to produce 125 dihydroxy vitamin D3.
 What he's saying there is that this is necessary
 for vitamin D to act directly on all these other tissues
 rather than being used for calcium regulation,
 calcium homostasis.
 Although chronic excessive exposure to sunlight
 increases the risk of non-melanoma skin cancer,
 the avoidance of all direct sun exposure
 increases the risk of vitamin D deficiency,
 which can have serious consequences.
 Monitoring serum 25 hydroxy vitamin D concentrations yearly
 should help reveal vitamin D deficiencies.
 So that's sort of a bit of overview,
 but here's another,
 this is a,
 this is titled prospective study of predictors
 of vitamin D status and cancer incidence
 and mortality in men.
 And I'm gonna skip the preamble and just,
 just, and I have all of this.
 I've got links to all of this on the page at GRC.
 It says from multivariate models,
 an increment of 25 nanomoles per liter
 in predicted vitamin D level
 was associated with a 17% reduction
 in total cancer incidence.
 I got lost my track here.
 Oh, incidence.
 And they go into the statistics,
 a 29% reduction in total cancer mortality
 with a relative risks of 0.71,
 that is, if you had an increase in serum D levels
 and a 45% reduction in digestive system cancer mortality,
 0.55.
 And then they, they,
 they summarize showing that the results were similar
 when they controlled further for body mass index
 and physical activity level.
 So basically saying that when all other influences
 were removed, vitamin D level in the blood
 had a direct bearing on cancer incidence.
 And there's a, there's like studies
 which describe similarly that higher levels of vitamin D
 are, are connected to lower levels
 of many different types of cancer.
 Pancreatic, colon, rectal, stomach, prostate, lung,
 breast, bladder, uterine, esophageal, kidney,
 multiple myeloma.
 I mean, it just goes on and on and on.
 There was one doctor who is at the Atascadero.
 He's an MD and psychiatrist
 at the Atascadero State Mental Hospital, John Cannell.
 Because he knew that vitamin D
 positively influenced mood,
 you know, we've all heard of seasonal effective disorder
 where people get kind of moody and gloomy in the winter,
 not surprisingly when there's much less exposure to sunlight.
 And when the sun is at a greater angle,
 not as often or as much overhead,
 it turns out that the atmosphere absorbs UVB.
 And so if the sun is not almost directly overhead,
 you're not getting much vitamin D.
 So he had his ward on vitamin D
 just for its psychological benefits.
 A flu went through the hospital,
 that was bad enough that wards needed to be quarantined.
 He said, I've seen two interviews
 where he mentions how the ward to one side of him
 had such a flu outbreak that it was quarantined.
 The ward to the other side of him
 and the ward across the hall as well as on the floor below.
 He knew that there was that his patients
 had had social interactions with the inmates in the other wards
 and the nurses were cross covering his ward and the other wards.
 So he figured that his people were similarly being exposed
 to this influenza,
 not one single patient that he was treating in his ward
 came down with the flu despite the fact
 that it was epidemic and to the level of quarantining.
 And now as a consequence,
 everyone at Atascadero receives vitamin D supplementation
 because of the strong evidence for its immunizational effect.
 So I mentioned to you when we were briefly talking
 about this last week that there's even a theory now
 about where Caucasians came from
 because it is believed that humans evolved in Africa
 with deep, dark, melanin-rich skin
 which balanced the strength of the equatorial sun.
 It is now we understand that this hormone,
 which unfortunately has been mislabeled of vitamin to its,
 I mean, which is, I think largely responsible
 for a lot of people thinking, oh, well,
 I probably get enough of this in my diet.
 I'm not gonna worry about it.
 This hormone has always been generated
 by the sun's UVB interaction with our skin.
 And as we evolved, our population grew,
 we began to migrate away from equatorial Africa,
 north, what we now believe happened
 is that as we left the equator,
 we, the UVB radiation that we evolved under,
 I mean, literally just like oxygen,
 I mean, that, that important, you know,
 as I run through, I look at all these things
 that we are beginning to understand
 are relating to low levels of vitamin D,
 you might think, wait a minute, you know,
 how can vitamin D fix that?
 Well, that's asking the question wrong.
 It's that we always had much higher levels
 of vitamin D in our blood than we do now
 because we evolved naked in the sun.
 I mean, and even now here we are in industrialized mode,
 basically living in dark UVB blackout caves,
 you know, called our homes and offices
 where no UVB radiation gets in,
 where we're getting much less sunlight
 than we were even, even a couple hundred years ago
 when we were out farming and getting exposure to the sun.
 And of course, unfortunately, even more recently,
 there's been a great public relations campaign
 warning about the dangers of skin cancer
 you must put on sunscreen when you go outside.
 So, so there have, there's actually been many other things
 even recently, which have begun to happen,
 which confuse people.
 For example, autism has, it's been noted
 that it's on the rise.
 One theory is that, oh, well,
 we're just diagnosing it more.
 We're more aware of it.
 So we're more, you know, we're looking more closely.
 However, what they have found is
 that the incidence of autism directly correlates
 with the latitude of the mother of autistic children
 during pregnancy.
 The further away mothers are from the equator,
 greater incidence of autism in their children.
 Now, correlation doesn't equal causation.
 - No, that's a very good point.
 And that's something we have to keep in mind.
 My favorite example of that is that imagine
 that someone knew nothing about, you know,
 like an alien came down, knew nothing about, you know,
 the way we operate and was looking like,
 was like watching the street as a random street in New York.
 And notice that suddenly everyone put their umbrellas up
 and, oh, look, then windshield wipers all began
 going on the cars.
 Well, if you didn't know any better,
 you didn't understand anything
 about what was really going on,
 you could say that raising umbrellas
 caused windshield wipers to go on when, in fact--
 - It's the other way around.
 - It's completely different.
 I mean, there's something else that is related.
 But, and see, one of the problems with where we are,
 and I mean, we're beginning to understand the significance.
 The problem is that you cannot patent vitamin D.
 That there, it is incredibly difficult
 to perform expensive studies.
 - There's no incentive to do that.
 - Yes, there is no financial incentive.
 There was a, there was a study that was done.
 So, it's left to universities and research hospitals
 that have limited funding, especially now.
 There was a study between the years of 2000 and 2005
 that took 1,179 women in Nebraska,
 which I think I recall is at 41 degrees north latitude.
 This was a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled
 study, that's the gold standard of studies.
 It gave, it divided the women in half.
 It gave half of them a placebo and calcium.
 And the other half, 1,100 IU per day of vitamin D and calcium.
 If you ignore, oh, and these were all,
 these were in the year 2000 when this began,
 they were all, as far as anyone knew, cancer-free.
 If you ignore and throw out the first year
 of any cancers that were found on the premise
 that those were already in the process of developing,
 during the rest of this study,
 the women who were taking the vitamin D plus calcium
 had 0.23% incidence of any type of cancer.
 0.23% incidence of any type of cancer.
 No, I mean, compared to the other half of the women.
 - Oh, I see. - So if the other half
 of the women were, you established their rate as 1.0.
 So it's less than one quarter,
 the number of incidents of cancer.
 So these studies exist, they're being published
 in by Harvard and conducted by Harvard
 in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition.
 I mean, not flaky, strange publications
 that no one's heard of, major fundamental research,
 but the problem is you can't patent vitamin D.
 The other problem is that the rate of production
 of vitamin D as we age really falls off.
 Now I should mention something that I haven't said before,
 and that is that just this morning,
 I had my fourth weekly test.
 I didn't get in the mail my third results,
 which would have indicated where I was
 after my second week, but what I did starting four weeks ago,
 I'm sorry, three weeks ago, today literally,
 was I had a reference vitamin D level taken.
 I knew after all the research I was doing
 that I was going to be putting myself on vitamin D
 to a much greater level of vitamin D
 than is in my multivitamin.
 One of the problems with supplementation,
 and there is a problem with supplementation,
 is that vitamin D can be toxic in very high doses.
 It is fat soluble, so it's not excreted
 from our body on an ongoing basis.
 So like any fat soluble vitamin,
 there's a concern that it will build up
 in your tissues over time.
 Nobody has ever become vitamin D toxic from sun exposure,
 but it has been determined that for example,
 half an hour in the sun will generate about 10,000 IU,
 10,000 international units worth of vitamin D,
 which then over the course of a couple of days,
 enters your bloodstream.
 Well, I knew that I was gonna be starting,
 I was gonna be adding some substantial vitamin D
 to my daily regimen after all this research
 that I have done, but I had no idea
 what my current vitamin D level was,
 and I wanted to play with generating it by the sun,
 because once I started supplementing,
 once I added vitamin D to my diet,
 well, I would never stop.
 And there were other things that I had added
 where I was thinking,
 gee, I wish I'd taken a measure beforehand,
 so I could know what it was before.
 So I thought, well, let's sort of play with this.
 So I found out to my tremendous shock
 that I am, or well, am as far as I know,
 even now, substantially deficient.
 There's four levels of vitamin D terminology.
 The medical community uses, you have deficiency,
 then you have insufficiency, sufficiency, and toxicity.
 So you obviously don't want to be toxic,
 you don't want too much.
 What you want is to be sufficient,
 and really neither insufficient nor deficient.
 And I am deficient.
 I mean, I have a great diet,
 I eat lots of salads, I like fish,
 I sort of avoid meat, I'm not afraid of it,
 but I'm doing everything I should.
 I have regular annual checkups,
 my cholesterol's where it should be,
 blood pressure's where it should be,
 a little higher than I would like it,
 but it turns out that adequate levels
 of vitamin D lowers blood pressure.
 In fact, it turns out that there is a seasonal sign wave
 cycle of blood pressure,
 the amplitude of the sign wave varies with latitude,
 and it is synchronized to the calendar.
 Vitamin, they did well known,
 the blood pressure goes down in the summer
 and goes up in the winter.
 It is also, of course, we know that people
 tend to get colds in the winter,
 and they get the flu in the winter, why?
 Well, maybe, and we don't know this,
 but it's because our vitamin D stores are depleted.
 There was one study that attempted to demonstrate
 that watching too much television caused autism,
 that is watching TV and autism were related,
 and it's interesting because it turns out
 that the people who did the study
 didn't actually interview people
 for how much television they watched.
 Instead, they used the rainfall figures in the area.
 So they correlated to rainfall, not TV watching.
 And they said, well, we don't really know
 how much TV kids are watching,
 but probably when it's raining, they're inside.
 What they were inadvertently doing
 was they were measuring probably the amount of sun
 that these kids were getting,
 and that's where the correlation was.
 In fact, when this was pointed out,
 they revised their study in order to correct that.
 So the proper level of vitamin D
 is something which is still unknown, believe it or not.
 The way the RDA, the recommended daily allowance,
 was established, was that because we really didn't know,
 the one thing we did know
 was that a tablespoon of cod liver oil would prevent rickets.
 And since it had been given for so many generations,
 for so many years and not caused a problem,
 they said, well, how much vitamin D is in cod liver oil?
 It turns out it's 400 IU.
 So that's what they said, okay,
 we'll just say that that's the recommended daily allowance.
 400 IU.
 The problem is that being in the sun for half an hour
 supposedly generates 10,000 IU.
 So substantially more.
 And in fact, studies have been done
 of life guards and farmers in Puerto Rico
 that measure the actual level of vitamin D
 they have in their blood.
 And in this common term of nanograms per milliliter,
 they're in the order of 50 to 70.
 So the current clinically accepted range is 32 to 100.
 100, I read the study and I've got a link to it on my page
 where the guy who did this who set the 32 to 100
 and you can read all about how it was established.
 And he says, well, I just set 100 sort of arbitrarily
 because it's higher than we generally see
 in anybody who has a lot of constant sun exposure.
 We don't know that it shouldn't be higher
 or that any higher level is toxic,
 but it would seem that 100
 is sort of a good place because, you know,
 that's all we know at this point.
 Anyway, my first test showed me at 23.6 nanograms
 per milliliter and a week later after a week of sun
 where I'm spending half an hour in noonday sun
 completely exposed.
 I mean, 100% baby, the way I was born dropped to 21.3.
 I'm guessing that this is just, you know,
 it's just the tolerance of the lab test.
 I'm, I'm, I hoped by this time to have the results
 of the second week, which would be the third test
 and a week from now I should have the results
 after the third week of the fourth.
 But for whatever reason, it doesn't look like
 I'm seeing any production.
 In the studies I've read, when you do get sufficient sunlight,
 your vitamin D level jumps up.
 It does take, you know, many weeks for it to reach
 whatever, whatever maximum it's going to.
 So it's sort of an exponential rise,
 but I would have certainly expected to see something
 after seven days of regular exposure.
 It looks to me like I'm unable to produce vitamin D
 through being out in the sun.
 It's disturbing to me that after five years
 with my internist, my doctor who was assigned to me,
 I mean, he was fast to give me a blood test and a media,
 a so-called CBC, a complete blood count
 to look at all of the things that are, you know,
 typically considered.
 I know exactly what my HDL and LDL and triglycerides
 and, and, you know, all that stuff is,
 he never checked my vitamin D.
 Now, maybe if something were like really off,
 like my, my blood calcium was off,
 he would have said, "Well, let's check your vitamin D."
 - That's what Dr. Mom was saying is,
 what about your, your serum ionized calcium?
 - Yeah, and, and, and that's, that's where it should be.
 - Interesting.
 - Maybe that would have, have brought him to do it,
 but one of the, but you know, clearly I'm,
 I'm in a level now that is, is way low based on,
 based on current thought.
 I would like to be, raise my 21 to something
 between 50 and 70, so, and somewhere, you know,
 like, like 60 being a goal, and, you know,
 that's what I, I will likely begin doing.
 - And you think that sunbathing is the key?
 - No, no, no, this was, remember,
 this was just an experiment that I, I only wanted.
 - 'Cause there's other risks associated with that.
 - Well, yes, there are, there are three types,
 interestingly, there are three types of skin cancer.
 You have squamous cell carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma,
 and malignant melanoma.
 Malignant melanoma is the cancer
 that everyone worries about.
 Interestingly though, it generally appears on areas
 of the skin that are covered by clothing,
 probably because statistically, most of us are having,
 you know, more than, you know, the, the majority
 of our skin covered.
 The squamous cell carcinoma and basal cell carcinoma
 is the kind that we see on our hands, arms, and face.
 It's also the kind that, you know,
 that your dermatologist can freeze off easily,
 and it's not a big deal, as long as you've got someone
 looking at your skin from time to time, you know,
 to, like your doctor takes a look at you
 to make sure that you don't have any of that.
 So, the UV radiation definitely damages skin.
 It can be carcinogenic, and it does generate vitamin D.
 What is believed is that as we migrated away
 from the equator, because we are so dependent
 upon vitamin D, that it became a powerful natural selection
 factor in our evolution.
 And with, you know, we know that our evolution,
 our evolution took millions and millions of years.
 It looks like from the studies that we've done,
 that as we left the equator and populations moved north
 up into Europe, that we deep pigmented
 in something like several tens of thousands of years,
 maybe like 50,000 years.
 Because suddenly, the high melanin content we had,
 which was protecting us from the sun at the equator,
 was also now blocking our ability to produce vitamin D,
 which is a critical, I mean, an absolutely critical component,
 I believe, of human health.
 We know when it's really low,
 that you develop chronic problems with calcium management
 and bone.
 Your body takes calcium from your bones
 to preferentially manage your blood calcium level
 because that's even more important.
 So your bones represent essentially a calcium well
 or, you know, a calcium repository
 that if you don't have enough vitamin D
 and/or calcium in your diet, you know,
 that's, there are mechanisms that'll pull calcium
 from your bones, which you don't want.
 But now we're learning that there are,
 that it's very likely that this very powerful
 and necessary hormone has been incorporated
 into many other systems in our body.
 And I imagine that many of us listening to this podcast
 are in the same position I was.
 I mean, I'm not a sunbather, I'm not out in the sun.
 I actually, you know, I mean, I get a little bit of sun,
 I'm not afraid of it.
 And I want to make sure I don't burn.
 But the problem is that, again,
 we're in a information deficit
 because studying these things costs money.
 And you can't patent the sun.
 You can't patent sunlight.
 - There's an analog because we know that salt
 is very good for treating a lot of things
 like cold sores and so forth.
 But nobody's going to study that
 because salt is free and cheap and unpantable.
 - But what's really interesting
 is there are vitamin D analogs
 which the pharmaceutical company are exploring.
 - Sure, yeah.
 - They're making little tiny money on that, yeah.
 - Exactly, 'cause that they can patent.
 And in fact, there are now some effective psoriasis
 medications which are all based on vitamin D analogs.
 So they tweak the molecule a little bit.
 There is a problem with high levels of vitamin D
 because as I mentioned, it has toxic in really high levels.
 But they want to use the very powerful,
 the 125D hydroxy vitamin D
 which is what your kidney produces.
 They have found that it is extremely good
 at fighting cancer.
 The problem is if you gave someone enough of it
 to fight cancer, it would turn you into limestone.
 So, you know, that's not a good thing.
 So what they're trying to do is they're trying
 to find a variant of this vitamin D
 which will have the effects they want
 and mitigate the effects they don't.
 If they can do that, then they could patent it
 and create a new drug.
 You know, I'm not averse at all
 to using the medical system if I need to.
 I'd much rather stay healthy, not need, you know,
 major surgical intervention of any kind.
 And so, you know, vitamin D will be part
 of my regimen going forward.
 And, you know, the takeaway, I think,
 would be for those listeners who have a doctor
 who are the kinds of people who know
 what their cholesterol is and so forth.
 Next time you go, say, hey, let's find out
 what my vitamin D level is.
 And I'm sure that if my doctor knew that I was 21,
 he'd say, oh, I mean, even the blood test results
 shows the level 32 to 100 and shows me as, you know,
 extremely low, he would have said, oh, well,
 we probably need to put you on some vitamin D,
 give you some vitamin D supplementation
 and we'll retest in 90 days.
 There's no indication that it could hurt
 and my sense is it can only help.
 - So you're gonna start taking supplements?
 - Yes, in fact, today.
 I did my last, I've done my three weeks in the sun.
 I don't have-- - I still like
 getting the sun and now I have Italian skin.
 And so, and of course I get checked every year
 for skin cancer, but I like getting some sun.
 I just feel-- - Well, it turns out
 that it also releases, being in the sun releases
 a shoot, it's a form of narcotic.
 - Yay, no wonder it feels so good.
 - You don't know, I mean, again, it's not surprising.
 I mean, we were meant to be in the sun.
 We evolved in the sun.
 I think more than anything else, from a--
 - It's a natural, it does, it feels good.
 It feels like this is where I should be.
 Same thing with the ocean, I feel good
 when I'm at the ocean, where I should be.
 - And, you know, I mean, we grew up with our parents
 saying, oh, go outside and get some sunshine.
 - Not anymore. - It's good for you.
 - Not anymore. - Oh, our kids
 are slathered with sunscreen, they wear big bonnets.
 I mean, they don't get the sun anymore.
 - Yep, I mean, so there really has been a change.
 There are, there is study after study
 that demonstrates that cancer, autism, allergies,
 diabetes, an amazing number of maladies
 have latitudinal correlations.
 And they've even noticed, for example,
 that even at high latitude, if you're at high altitude,
 then the incidences of these problems drop
 because you've got less atmosphere between you and the sun.
 And the other problem is, you cannot get sun
 in the, in the sun that matters in the morning
 or in the afternoon.
 It's got to be when the sun is almost directly overhead.
 - Oh, that's interesting.
 - The reason is that there's this beautiful gap
 in an atmospheric absorption right through
 what we not surprisingly call the visible spectrum.
 And, you know, we call it the visible spectrum
 'cause that's what we see.
 But you'll notice we don't see in the ultraviolet.
 I mean, the ultraviolet and the visible
 are like, they're the same range of radiation.
 We don't see in the ultraviolet
 because it's dark most of the time in the ultraviolet.
 It's only briefly light for a few hours around noon.
 And then the sun's angle becomes such
 that the UV radiation, the UVB,
 which is between 290 and about 320 nanometers,
 it's almost completely cut off.
 So evolution would never give us vision
 that is only useful for a couple hours during the day.
 Instead, we see in the visible spectrum
 where, which is not absorbed, the way UVB is.
 And so we're able to, for example, hunt by moonlight
 or see from the time the sun comes up
 to the time the sun sets, which is much more useful.
 But at the same time, that visible radiation
 doesn't have the energy
 and doesn't have the wavelength to interact
 with us chemically the way UVB does.
 So we need that UV radiation.
 And again, I wanna make sure that people understand,
 I'm not suggesting, I'm not promoting,
 spending time in the sun.
 It's, I was about to say that I've read some studies,
 but again, we're in a study deficit here
 that say that by the age of 50,
 our ability to produce vitamin D,
 continuously and dodgiously in our skin
 has fallen by half and that by the age of 65,
 it's down to 25% of what it was.
 So you cannot get the D you need through sunlight.
 And you did notice, maybe you weren't kidding,
 that I'm a little tanner.
 I've been, I was looking at how much sun I was getting
 and whether I was tanning.
 I'm, after three weeks of half an hour a day,
 I have tanned a bit, not too much.
 But the problem is tanning is a regulating mechanism.
 Tanning is the production of this melanin polymer,
 which is 99.9% efficient at absorbing UVB.
 Melanin absorbs UVB and turns it harmlessly into heat.
 So it protects our skin from DNA damage.
 Unfortunately, it also protects it
 from generating vitamin D.
 - Oh, interesting.
 - So here's the problem.
 I'm clearly receiving enough sun
 because I'm adapting to it.
 My skin is darkening, which is my body's attempt
 to down-regulate the amount of UVB radiation
 that I receive in the process.
 It's down-regulating my ability to produce vitamin D.
 So my point is that as I get older
 and what happens is we lose the cholesterol in our skin.
 You know how like you're so-called you get thin skin?
 You know, it is a loss of cholesterol in our skin,
 which reduces our ability to produce vitamin D
 yet we're still gonna be able to get tan.
 You don't lose your ability to tan.
 So what that says is that when you're no longer young
 and able to produce as much vitamin D as you did,
 no amount of sun can give it to you
 because your body is gonna tan and down-regulate
 not only, well, down-regulate all the UVB that gets
 into your skin and to further cut off D.
 So I think the only solution is to monitor
 your vitamin D levels and supplement.
 Now, the good news is because it's not patented
 because it's inexpensive to make, it's very inexpensive.
 One of my favorite suppliers is a company called Now Foods
 and my favorite place for buying stuff is iHerb.com.
 They're great service, great delivery, very good prices.
 Now Foods has a 5,000 IU vitamin D
 which their label recommends you take one every three days.
 Taking vitamin D infrequently like that works
 because it has on the order of about a three or four week
 half-life in our body.
 It lasts a long time because it's fat soluble.
 So our liver takes it up and our fat tissues,
 all of our adipose tissues dissolve the vitamin D.
 It's very easy to swallow because remember
 how concentrated it is.
 We're only talking about micrograms of D.
 It's made by in huge vats of olive oil
 because it's fat soluble.
 So they start with a huge vat of olive oil,
 pour a carefully measured amount of vitamin D in,
 then dissolve that vitamin D
 and then they produce these little tiny gel caps.
 So 120 of those costs $8.80.
 Well, if you take one every three days,
 that's a year's supply of vitamin D in a useful dose.
 That would be 1,666 IU per day.
 The U.S. government has said that even that 2,000 IU per day
 is an absolutely safe dose.
 Many nutritionists feel that that's way too low,
 but follow the label and then you're getting
 a useful amount of vitamin D for $8.80 for a year.
 Yeah, yeah.
 I just, if I, you know, there's, I've looked at this stuff
 and if I had to take one thing,
 if I were, I was gonna say on a desert island,
 but even on a desert island,
 I don't think I can any longer make a sufficient amount
 of vitamin D by getting, by being the sun,
 because I'm gonna tan and that's gonna cut off
 what I would have been able to make.
 Is there a risk to supplementing the overdo it?
 Yes, the risk is at the high end.
 And in fact, this is the conundrum,
 is that our government has,
 our government does put D in stuff.
 It puts D in milk and the--
 Aren't we getting, 'cause we're all drinking Starbucks,
 getting a lot more milk than ever before.
 Well, here's the problem is milk has actually gone out of fashion
 and we're not drinking the kind of milk we do.
 Believe it or not, Ricketts has made a comeback
 in the last few years.
 That's unbelievable.
 Because children are not drinking milk.
 Parents don't pop.
 Exactly, exactly, and you know, sugary fruit drinks.
 So the government mandates that 400 IU
 be put in a quart of milk.
 And the problem is you would have to drink
 about 10 quarts of milk a day in order to get
 a physiologically useful amount of vitamin D.
 But here's the problem, if the government,
 'cause this is a powerful steroid hormone,
 if the government, they can't put more in.
 Yeah. Exactly.
 If the government did raise the levels of D
 that were in our food supply,
 there's a wide variation in the amount of different types
 of food that different people eat.
 Maybe there is someone who drinks quarts of milk a day.
 So they could be doing themselves harm
 if they had too much of it.
 If there was too much of a milk-- If they were supplementing
 and they drank four quarts a day
 and they were getting out in the sun and on and on.
 Yeah, I mean, I think that the only,
 I mean, the really responsible thing to do
 is to get a test that you can,
 you could buy your own as I have been doing.
 Oh, really? Oh, these aren't with your doctor.
 No.
 Do you draw blood? How do you get it?
 Oh, yeah, I go to a lab every Wednesday morning
 to lab core.
 There's a group called Life Extension Foundation,
 LEF.org, they offer retail blood testing services.
 So you pay them, they mail you the forms,
 and then you take that to a lab nearby,
 they take a vial of blood,
 and then about five days later, normally,
 this was late in this third test,
 but normally it takes five days and you get the results.
 And so, I think it's $67 for a non-member,
 $47 for a member, so if you were going to do several of these,
 I think membership is $75 a year, so you get a discount.
 So I know what people listening, what I'll do is,
 I'm not going to get tested, I'm just going to go out
 and buy some vitamin D tabs.
 Is that a bad idea?
 I don't think so.
 As long as you follow the label,
 you cannot be toxic because, for example, Walgreens will have
 a thousand IU, and it'll probably say take one or two a day.
 And, you know, follow the label, and you're fine.
 This 5,000 IU from Now Foods says take one every three days.
 Because, I mean, well, for example,
 because it has the half-life it does,
 some doctors will mega-dose their patients monthly,
 like give them 100,000 IU, but I'm not recommending that.
 You absolutely would only do that under a doctor's care.
 But my point is that you can take a large dose
 and then let it be acquired by your system,
 and then used over time as your blood level drops.
 It's just easier for me, for example, to do one every three days,
 or I will be monitoring my blood level,
 so I will probably take more because I wanted to find out
 what level I need to take in order to put my blood where it should be.
 So, again, ask your doctor for a vitamin D test,
 get one for yourself, or think about getting some real D.
 I should mention that there are two types of D that you can purchase.
 There's D2, which is called ergo calcifatrol, or D3,
 which is coly calcifatrol. D3 is what we make.
 Coly calcifatrol is the only kind you really want to take.
 Essentially, biologically identical to what we manufacture.
 Some concern, for example, I think it's not kosher, believe it or not,
 because it's made by irradiating the lanolin from lamb's wool.
 Ergo calcifatrol is made from irradiating fungus,
 so it's 100% plant-based, but it's vitamin D2,
 and some studies have said that it only raises your vitamin D levels
 about 25% as high as D3. So D3, which is what we make when sun hits our skin,
 is substantially more effective than D2. So, I imagine what you would find.
 You know, for example, this now foods, vitamin D is vitamin D3,
 Walgreens, drug stores in their little health section.
 What you want to look for is the coly calcifatrol,
 and you know, 1,000 milligrams per day is without question safe.
 The US government says that up to 2,000 is safe.
 Nutritionists believe safe dosages are far higher.
 I wouldn't go there unless, you know, you knew what your blood levels were.
 You want to make sure it is possible to be hypersensitive to vitamin D.
 There are some genetic conditions that could cause complications at much higher levels.
 We should emphasize we're not physicians. You should check with your physician before you
 do anything, and probably ask your physician what he thinks and get a detest.
 Are there natural food sources? I like to get this stuff from food.
 Can I eat a lot of broccoli or something?
 No, that's just it, Leo. It is not in our food supply.
 It's interesting. The only way the Eskimos were able to keep their relatively high level
 of pigmentation is eating oily fish. They have a diet high in fish and it's the fish is the only
 source. A three and a half ounces of salmon has about, I think it's 380 IU of vitamin D. And again,
 there are studies that have been done that estimate we use about 4,000 IU a day.
 I've seen numbers like 3,800, 4,000, something like that.
 So again, you would need to be eating an awful lot of salmon, you know, 10, what, 35 ounces
 of salmon a day, which you might get tired of after a few days.
 Yeah, that might not be good for you for other reasons.
 Exactly. So also, it turns out that cod liver oil is really not the best source.
 It does give you vitamin D. It also contains the other fat soluble vitamin, vitamin A.
 And a lot of vitamin A can be a problem. And it also vitamin A genetically looks very much like
 vitamin D. And it can, there have been reports that say that A can block the positive effects
 of vitamin D that is on other than on calcium metabolism where we know that it's effective. So
 getting A in the form of beta carotene is really what you want because your body is able to convert
 as much as it needs over to A. Anyway, you know, that's my readout on D. I think it's important.
 It's not a vitamin. I think it's had a bad rap by being misnamed a vitamin by, you know, by early,
 early medical science that didn't know, you know, what it was, but just said, oh, well,
 it's a nutritional thing because it's in in and cod liver oil. In fact, it's not anywhere else
 in our diet because we evolved in the sunlight. We need it. Otherwise, all kinds of things
 stop not working as well as they should. And there was, in fact, it was funny. I was
 talking to some friends at Starbucks a week or two ago. And one of the people said they just seen
 a news blurb saying that 70% of US children are vitamin D deficient.
 I mean, it is a problem. But the problem, the conundrum is because it is a powerful hormone,
 we can't put it in our food supply. We weren't meant to get it really in our food supply.
 There's barely enough now to prevent rickets. And it's not even doing that anymore because people
 aren't, you know, they're staying away from dairy products more than they should. But if we put
 a lot more in, then there'd be there'd be the possibility that people could reach toxic levels
 of it. So I mean, it needs to be done. You know, young people in the sun is probably what you
 want to do. Although there's a concern about skin cancer, which is is to some degree warranted.
 So I don't really see a way other than using supplements and doing it with care and wisely.
 I think it's important. Steve Gibson, you know, this is a little bit of a departure for the show,
 but I think a fascinating topic. And I could see why you were anxious to share it with us. Thank you.
 Well, so I didn't, I didn't give the web page. I'm in the process as I record this of I have a
 lot of it. All the pages are assembled here at home. I haven't yet put them up on the site,
 but it'll just be grc.com/health. All right. And that will get anybody who wants to read this
 research. I've got I've captured PDFs of all of this. They're all online. People can poke around,
 read this for themselves. And I hope maybe I've given if nothing else, people something to think
 about. I'm gonna run out and get some vitamin D. I could tell you that right now. Steve, thank
 you so much for joining us. Steve's page is grc.com. That's where you'll find spin right. The world's
 finest hard drive maintenance and recovery program. If he won't do it, I will. I'll plug it. Also,
 lots of great free stuff. And by the time you hear this, probably grc.com/health for all the
 notes from this, you'll also find if you go to grc 16 kilobit versions of this show, so you can,
 you know, for people who don't have a lot of bandwidth, we've got transcripts you can share with
 friends. It's all there at grc.com. Steve, have a sunny and lovely day. Thanks, Leo. And we'll
 see you next time on Security Now.
