 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by AOL Radio at AOL.com/podcasting.
 This is Security Now with Steve Gibson, Episode 57 for September 14, 2006, Virtual PC.
 Security Now is brought to you by
 a starrow, makers of the Starrow Security Gateway on the web at www.ast-a-r-o-dot-com.
 And by Dell. For this week's specials, visit twit.tv/dell.
 And by Visa. Safer, better money. Life takes Visa.
 Alright, get your tin foil hats out everybody. It's time for Security Now.
 Protect yourself online. And here he is, the king of the tin foil hats.
 This is Steve Gibson. Some people accuse you sometimes of that of being too worried about security.
 But that's your job.
 Well, and I, you know, we've talked about that too. It's, the, the idea is what, what I'm, what, what we're trying to do is not to tell people they need to worry.
 But to educate people about what there would be to worry about if they wanted to worry.
 I mean, I'm not saying, oh, extinction there. You know, I'm, yeah, I'm not saying, oh, no, the sky is falling.
 I'm saying, okay, when I'll see that crack up there, you know, in the sky, well, keep your eye on that.
 Because, you know, if that crack gets any bigger, then maybe you do want to go indoors.
 That could be a problem down the road.
 Yeah. Well, and, and for example, you know, we, we talk about spyware. People understand.
 Some people aren't victims of it. Some people are, you know, repeatedly being buried by this stuff.
 So, you know, so certainly there's a wide spectrum of sentiment and of experience and exposure.
 I mean, you know, this is a big planet and a, and a, and all kinds of things going on.
 So if nothing else, people being appraised of what's happening, I think is, you know, is our job.
 And, you know, and certainly we have some obligation to put it into context.
 For example, this is, we're recording this just after patch Tuesday, the second Tuesday of the month,
 where Microsoft releases their, their news of new problems.
 And so, you know, there were a bunch, several are critical. So if people aren't running Windows Update,
 they might want to just go over to the start menu and, and run it from there to download the latest updates
 to their copy of Windows and, and feel a little more secure.
 There was a serious office problem this time out.
 Yeah. And, and a couple older problems were revised with new critical ratings.
 So, you know, there, there's more to do. Always more to do.
 Oh, it's more to do.
 Well, let's, let's, we've been, one of the things we've been doing, and this is not really a scare story.
 This is actually kind of a happy story is talking about virtualization technology.
 And we're going to get to our wrap up of virtual, virtualization technology cover kind of some of the things
 we haven't mentioned yet. Before we do, I do want to remind you that Visa is a sponsor this month
 on the Twit Network, and we really appreciate their support on all of the shows, including security now.
 As you know, Visa works very hard to keep your information safe and secure.
 It's one of the reasons they particularly wanted to be on your podcast, Steve.
 They also remind all of you that if you're going to, and it's just, just like what Steve was just saying, you know,
 if you're, if you're, if you've got a credit card of any kind, you want to consider a few things to protect yourself.
 For instance, pay attention to what's going on with your Visa.
 You want to go online and look at your statement or look at your paper statement when it comes each month.
 In fact, do it as often as you can to monitor transactions, make sure nothing unusual or out of the way is happening.
 Do sign your Visa card on the Signature Panel.
 Visa also says if you choose a PIN for your Visa card, choose one that's unique, secret, and don't write it on anything.
 Memorize your PIN.
 And here's an important one. Keep financial information secure. Don't even let family members, friends, or neighbors see it.
 And shred it before discarding. Most most information theft doesn't occur online, but in fact, occurs in the real world
 from people finding your hard copy and using it.
 Just some important security tips from the card I recommend you use online.
 Safer Better Money Life Takes Visa.
 Virtualization. Do we redefine it just so that people who've missed the last few podcasts know what you're talking about?
 As I promised last week, and I think you mentioned the week before, one of the things that I wanted to do this week
 was to address Microsoft's virtual PC offerings, both their virtual PC and their virtual server,
 because readers had written in saying, "Hey, that's free now. How does it compare to the others?"
 So that's going to be the main thrust, and this is essentially our wrap-up of the whole virtual machine topic.
 We got into this whole virtual machine issue, sort of directly from the security aspect,
 because there are many useful applications for contemporary virtual machine technology.
 We've talked about VMware as being sort of the, in many ways, the granddaddy, the heavyweight of virtualization,
 and then based on my survey of the industry, Sandboxy we talked about as a much lighter weight solution,
 which allows you to create application Sandbox to contain things you're doing that may be dangerous
 and prevent them from making any permanent changes to your system.
 Actually, I got a very nice note from the author of Sandboxy thanking us for our mention
 and being really pleased, apparently lots of people went over and are exploring that possibility.
 Oh, that's great.
 So just to give a brief recap.
 A brief recap, the whole concept is that machines are so powerful now.
 I mean, they actually have excess processing power that are most of the time are not being used
 unless you're really compressing video or doing huge database sorts or something.
 This excess capacity and the features in the hardware that enable the machine to emulate itself.
 The idea being that you could open a window that looks like its own machine booting
 and into that window you can install another operating system.
 So it's an operating system literally running within an operating system sort of nested that way.
 And there are many applications for that.
 One of the things that people are beginning to think about since VISTA is on the horizon,
 Microsoft's next generation operating system is, well, maybe using a virtual machine to install
 and just poke around at VISTA rather than committing major hardware or going through all the trouble
 of dual booting and so forth in order to have that sort of experience.
 So there's the idea of experimenting with operating systems by installing them within a virtual machine
 where you're not committed in any way to keep it.
 It's just a nice sort of experimenting containment.
 And then there's the security side because anything that's done in the virtual machine
 stays in the virtual machine unless you deliberately take some action in order to make it permanent
 or move a file that you downloaded from the virtual machine environment into your hosting environment.
 It's kind of like Las Vegas, what happens in the virtual machine stays in the virtual machine.
 Exactly, that was the analogy I was drawing.
 So what happened in the case of Microsoft is it's interesting because the two major heavyweight
 virtual machine technologies are VMware and what Microsoft now has called virtual PC.
 There are, as we've mentioned, sort of glancingly before, there are other things.
 There's Zen, there's something called QMU, there's Box, there's, you know, many other projects
 which are sort of, you know, they're often open source projects, they're over on source forage.
 They're typically a small team of people who are just sort of, this is what they want to do.
 They want to experiment with emulating the Intel processor on other platforms.
 And so there are processor emulations, there are various sorts of projects at various stages of completion.
 But in my experience, they're sort of niche oriented solutions, whereas what VMware
 and what Microsoft now have with virtual PC are much more mainstream.
 VMware, as we've talked about before, it began life over on Linux, back in the late '90s, I think 1997,
 it began life over on Linux as a virtual machine technology that would allow Linux users
 to host Windows applications, that is, you know, so you might need one or two apps running Windows,
 but you're a Linux guy.
 So the idea was the very first, the very early VMware was to host Windows on Linux.
 Well, similarly, the lineage of Microsoft's virtual PC, they actually bought all this technology
 in early 2003 from a company called Connectix.
 Connectix had the same idea that VMware had, but over on the Mac.
 The idea being that Mac users might need one or two applications running under Windows,
 that's just causing them a problem.
 And so the original Connectix virtual machine technology was Mac hosted
 and the so-called guest OS, that is, the operating system that was running in the virtual machine was Windows.
 And it evolved VMware and the Connectix product, and they called their virtual PC also,
 because that's what it was, it was a virtual PC running in a Mac.
 It sort of evolved together over the years.
 And it's interesting, Microsoft's statement at the time they bought Connectix
 was that they were acquiring the virtual machine technology from Connectix,
 because they wanted to allow their legacy server customers to be able to run Windows
 and T apps in server 2003.
 So, of course, Microsoft Server 2003 was the major server evolution sort of out of Windows XP
 and also from Windows 2000 server, then they went to 2003.
 Well, in doing so, they broke some aspects of compatibility
 with their even older legacy server platform, which was, of course, Windows NT, NT4.
 So they recognized, well, we need to provide some sort of operating solution,
 some sort of a bridge for customers who still have, and there are,
 there are legacy applications that were originally written tightly to Windows NT,
 and they won't run in the very recent Windows operating system.
 Kind of makes sense.
 If you're running something like this, you're really right down of the hardware,
 and you probably make a lot of assumptions about what's running.
 Right, and remember, I mean, we're talking, you know, NT is a long time back,
 and it's certainly the case that, you know, for example,
 customers may have a mission critical application,
 you know, that they've been using for 15 years, and the company that wrote it's gone,
 I mean, you know, or is no longer moving it forward, yet, you know,
 they're locked into this thing. I mean, they're there, or it might not even have been
 a professional formally published product. It might have been, you know,
 internal corporate IT that wrote some custom application where,
 and it's just much easier for them to, like, not mess with it, you know,
 not have to move it off of NT, because why would they?
 Right.
 So Microsoft needed some sort of a migration strategy, so their reason,
 their stated reason for purchasing this virtualization technology from Connectix is
 they wanted to allow NT4 to run inside a virtual machine on the new Windows server
 in 2003, in order to provide that sort of bridge.
 So what's really interesting is that as Connectix's,
 I guess that's how you'd say that, Connectix.
 Connectix is, as their offering evolved, they became very OS neutral.
 They would, you could run Linux, you could run, you know, like, you know,
 place that they supported a wide range of PC hosted operating systems,
 essentially all of them, on their platform.
 Well, as you might imagine, Microsoft's not a big fan of people doing anything other
 than Windows. So one of the things that happened, and it's, it's funny,
 as you, as you track the evolution over time, Microsoft got it three years ago
 and moved it through a couple versions.
 Well, each one is slower than the, than the previous one.
 And, and they're becoming increasingly non-Windows OS friendly.
 So that today, if you install virtual PC, you know, it, it says, okay,
 what kind of Windows operating system do you want to run in this virtual machine
 that you're going to create? And then there is sort of a begrudging other
 line at the bottom. But, well, if you must run something else,
 you know, we really, oh, and we don't support it, by the way, but we do have
 this other line that you can use.
 Now, now in fairness, this, this appears to be nothing really more than marketing
 because I found a great site. It's, it's a, it's vpc.visualwin.com.
 You got to pull it up right now, Leo, while we're talking vpc.visualwin.com.
 You're going to wait, you're going to wait for me?
 Well, no, I'm, it's this amazing effort that a whole bunch of people
 have gone through to, to list the compatibility of OS's operating
 inside of virtual PC. Look at the list. It's, it's 1400 and 48 entries.
 There's stuff there. I've never, I mean, most of the stuff there
 I've never heard of. Yeah. Just wacky stuff. I did notice that
 Astaro, the Astaro security products do run in Microsoft virtual PC.
 So if somebody wanted, you know, Astaro, of course, being one of our hosts.
 And one of, and a great many Linuxs, in fact, I would say a lot of these
 1400 are just Linux distros. Actually, and, and I think that, of course,
 well, I mean, we know that Windows runs in, in Microsoft's virtual PC.
 They formally support it, but, and so you're right, most of these are
 Linuxs, but I mean, look at all the Linuxs.
 And, and net BSD, BSD, plan nine. Yeah.
 Wow. Now, it is interesting too, because if people are interested in,
 in virtual PC for the purpose of running Linux, there are little
 nodes in the columns. I mean, mostly everything is yeses.
 I would say like 95, 96% of these 1400 and 48 wacky versions of
 different OS's are yeses. So, so clearly this shows us that, that this
 is a good emulation of a PC that, that OS's way beyond Windows are still
 able to run much as they were before Microsoft acquired it.
 So Microsoft has apparently done nothing obvious to, to hurt virtual PC,
 to make it non-Windows friendly. However, you know, they're just not
 formally supporting it. So, but, but my point is that if you, you,
 you might look at this list, this vpc.visualwind.com list,
 if you are interested in making sure that a specific OS that you wanted
 to host worked. Now, all that said, I don't think virtual PC is probably
 the right answer. Oh, after all that. After all that.
 I mean, I wanted to cover it. I told people I would take a good look at it
 and compare it to VMware. Now, it's got some benefits. First of all,
 it's a much smaller, lighter weight download and installation
 than VMware. The virtual PC 2004, which is the current edition,
 is 18 Megs. Whereas, for example, VMware, and this is VMware server,
 which is their free version, workstation is still, you have to pay for,
 but the VMware server, which is free as is virtual PC,
 is 145 Megs. Wow. So, it's, it's much bigger.
 That's 10 times bigger. Well, and I had mentioned also when we were talking
 about the VM, the free VMware player, which is sort of a read-only version
 of VMware. And I talked about how, you know, it, it really whacks your system.
 And it's a, it's a substantial thing that you're installing.
 And, you know, virtual adapters appear in your, in, in your network list
 of, of network adapters. I mean, it, it really gets into your system
 and, and sinks its teeth in. So, and, and basically the, the player does
 that in a read-only fashion. You're essentially installing the whole
 VMware system. You just don't have the ability to create virtual machines
 from scratch using that tool, whereas their VMware server product does.
 So, so, back to Microsoft's virtual PC, the, the thing that it lacks,
 that is sort of the, the, the Achilles heel for many people,
 is that it provides no USB support. And I see, I see people, people
 in the Achilles here. Yeah. It really is. People are complaining about that
 all over the place. I mean, it, it has a very nice, a sort of a simplified
 user interface. It supports internal networking. You, you can run multiple
 virtual machines and they're able to talk to each other. They can be behind
 a virtual NAT. It's got virtual DHCP for allowing these machines to acquire
 their own addresses, or remember that last, in our last Q&A, a, a listener
 asked, "Hey, if I wanted to run a virtual machine server and I had a server
 running on my host, the external OS, and both were like web servers,
 who would get the web request?" Well, it is possible with all of these
 products to let the virtual machine have an IP that's public.
 So, so different requests could go to, to, to the guest OS's running in the
 containers or to the hosting platform, depending on what you want to mean.
 There are, it's, it's got plenty of features. One thing it does, which is
 fortunate, is it does support sound. So it will emulate your sound, that is the
 Microsoft's virtual PC, will emulate your sound card, but it does not support
 USB. That seems such a big deal, frankly.
 Well, and what I really, I mean, the feeling that you get when, as you sort of
 look at this, is that their virtual, they really did get this for the server
 side. And, and for example, the server side does not support sound because the
 presumption is, well, who needs sound in a server room? You know, you're, you're
 running service, you know, servers on big hardware in a data center somewhere.
 You don't need things, banking and bonking and, you know, media player
 support and so forth. So, so, so I think they must have, it sort of feels to me
 like virtual PC as well. We want this because maybe we want to compete with
 VMware over on, you know, on the desktop platform, but you're right. It's, it
 seems, it's certainly one has to imagine if Microsoft is going to move this
 forward, that, that USB support will be something they will immediately be
 adding. Isn't there some question about whether they're going to move this
 forward, though? There really is because they, we, we do know that, that what
 they, what they bought from Connectix, of course, was originally Mac hosted. And
 so, you know, you and I have talked about virtual PC on the Mac for a long time
 overall at, on, on the G5 side, you know, the, the non-intel, the earlier Macs, that
 was the way of running Windows on one of the Macs and many people did it. It worked.
 They installed Windows and they were okay. Well, Microsoft has said that's the end
 of the line for that product. Virtual, virtual, virtual PC will not be ported
 over to the new Mac Intel Pro Duo platforms, all, you know, all this new
 generation of, of Intel based Mac, which, which to me seems that it's, well, it's
 sort of like, also, I think they've abandoned IE on, on the Mac also, haven't
 they? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, no, that made sense because there was an equivalent.
 I guess it's the same on the, for the, for the virtual PC there, there are better
 solutions. There's parallels that will be VMware. Well, exactly. And when we now
 know that, as you said, that VMware is going to be moving over to the Mac and
 that though at the virtual machines that are created over on the Intel side
 will, will be cross platform compatible. So you'll be able to, you know, install
 Windows XP in a, in a virtual machine under VMware on, on, on top of a regular
 Intel Windows installation and then just copy those, those virtual machine
 files over to the Mac and open, you know, like, open exactly the same instance of
 Windows over there. So, so it feels a bit like, like Microsoft doesn't care that
 much. Now, the other real problem aside from no USB support is it is clearly
 slower. It, it used to be much speedier. I run it because the hardware now is
 supporting it better. Well, it exactly. I mean, the hardware provides, as we've
 talked about, much better virtual machine hardware level support for, for doing
 these things. Microsoft has apparently said that, well, we had to, we had to add
 all of our trustworthy, trustworthy computing platform technology and that's
 what slowed it down. Let's say, okay. Well, but I got to say, I mean, side by side
 comparison. I, I, I've been, I've been using virtual PC and VMware server that
 is the free version of VMware side by side. It is clearly the case that VMware is
 faster. There's just, I mean, it's, it's, it's, there's like these long periods of
 time where nothing seems to be happening. I mean, the installation of, of XP, which
 I did just yesterday was like, okay, what, what is, what is going on? I mean,
 this, this is on a dual Xeon, seriously strong machine dual, dual Xeon processor,
 you know, hyper threaded, two gigs of RAM is like, whoa, I don't know where it went,
 but it was really, really slow. So, however, VMware's server product, the free one,
 also does not support USB or sound doesn't even have sound. Well, that would, that
 would kind of support what you've said, which is this is for a server. Exactly.
 And, and, and just sort of in general, so there, so Microsoft has their virtual server.
 I think they're, they're virtual server 2005 is their server sort of, sort of
 profile VM solution. Just as VMware has their, has their VMware server solution,
 neither have USB or sound support. So, the desktop solution. And so, basically,
 I've come back around to being glad that I originally bought and invested in the
 VMware workstation solution because it offers strong USB support and sound. I
 mean, it, you know, it's a, it's a complete desktop solution, but it's not free. So,
 I guess that I, you know, virtual PC is, if, if someone wants to experiment with
 virtualization on their machine, it's a smaller download. It does give you sound,
 does not support USB devices. And it's got a performance problem. It's funny too,
 because it's funny because I'm seeing people talking about using virtual PC to
 host Vista. No. Now, can you imagine? Unless you have a lot of time. I mean,
 I gave a presentation on Sunday to the North Orange County Computer Club and the
 person who was presenting before me was showing, sort of giving the club a first
 look at Vista. And talking about how people are, are really complaining about
 what a resource hog Vista is. And in fact, Jerry Pournell's current column talks
 about this. And it's not even clear that you can run it on a, on a motherboard with
 integrated graphics, because, you know, I mean, you, you need some add-on monster,
 you know, graphics card with its own fans and, well, you could run it. You just
 couldn't run it. You just couldn't get the Aero Glass interface stuff.
 Exactly. Yeah, you'd have to give up the interface. It really is, I guess, you know,
 very aggressive in terms of, of the resource it needs, the resources it needs.
 And so, you know, the notion of running it inside of virtual PC or even Windows XP
 itself is like, oh, it's just dragging along. It's like, oh, okay. Well, I mean,
 for one thing, I don't think that would be a fair, it would, it would not be,
 it would not be, it would not give you a fair sense for what Vista was running
 in inside virtual PC. Yeah. Because, you know, the, the container itself is much
 slower than the machine on which you're running it natively. Right. Right. So, you
 know, so I, I would not recommend using virtual PC to host, you know, a test
 install a Vista or, you know, you'll be doing it for a week just to get Vista
 booted. You'll say this is, this operating system is too slow to use. Yeah.
 Yeah. So, so I really, I mean, virtual PC is free. You get what you pay for. You,
 you get sound, but no USB support. It's a smaller download. It, I mean, it's got a
 simple, nice sort of comfortable user interface. But, you know, and maybe, for
 example, for just browsing the web. Certainly a web browser is not going to be, you
 know, super resource intensive. On the other hand, we've got sandboxy, which we
 talked about a couple episodes ago, which is a extremely nice zero overhead
 containment for IE, Netscape, Mozilla, Opera, you know, any of the mainstream
 browsers. It runs on all of them. And so, it's a perfect solution. If you just
 want to do, you know, safe internet surfing. All right. So, really, it's only
 real advantages. It's free. Yes. I would say, well, certainly one of the, one of the
 applications people have for virtual machine technology is messing around with
 other OS's. For example, Windows users, I mean, everything we're talking about here
 is Windows hosted. So, Windows users who want to experiment with Linux, who want to
 experiment with free BSD, who, you know, who don't want to commit the hardware or
 dual boot running, but they just sort of curious. Now, there's a perfect solution
 because in those, you know, where you're wanting to mess around with one of those
 OS's, oh, you could argue that USB and sound support are less important. And
 certainly VMware formally supports the installation of Linux's, whereas virtual
 PC is arguably, you know, non-Windows hostel. So, I think that makes more sense
 over on that side. So, overall, I would have to say that, overall, you know, I looked at
 Microsoft's virtual PC offerings, and I have to say, Leo, when I started off, I was
 already, you know, knowing I was going to be talking about this, I could hear
 myself saying, well, you know, Linux, I'm making, you know, Linux, you know, Leo.
 I'm just going to call you Linux now. You know, Leo, I was sort of
 rehearsing, saying, you know, everyone knows I'm no apologist for Microsoft,
 and I'm, you know, I'm, I take them to task when I, when I feel that's what they
 need, but this virtual PC is smaller, lighter, you know, just seems really nice.
 You didn't have to rehearse that, actually. I know I didn't, because, you know, when I
 actually tried to, actually tried to use it and install XP, and it's like, oh, my.
 I think it's just, God, really, I think you hit the nail on the head. It's an old
 technology that they bought and really haven't kept up today. That's all.
 And it is, it doesn't have their real focus. Yeah. And it's free. You know, how, you
 know, it's like, not like Microsoft is big on giving things away for free.
 And it's in their giving it away. Exactly. And so you have to wonder if it's like,
 well, you know, they really have this for server virtualization. That's where
 their focus is. Or as the guy, the Microsoft person originally said three years ago,
 we just got this because we wanted old NT stuff to be able to run on our latest
 platforms. That's fair. You know, that said, VMware has the free player. It's got
 all those appliances. It's really worth spending the money. It's not that expensive.
 And boy, you get so much benefit. Well, and certainly you can, in fact, I'm sure
 the workstation has a free evaluation version that will allow you to play with
 with the fully enhanced version, USB support, sound support, you know, explicit
 support for Linux's and non-Windows OS's. Oh, yeah. And they'll totally get a
 free serial number and try it out. Absolutely. Yeah. And they'll be moving it
 over to the Mac also. So you've got that cross platform transport ability. Overall,
 you know, I wanted to pursue, you know, what's Microsoft got up their sleeve.
 I'm back and happy with VMware. And everyone now knows why.
 You know, it was great that you mentioned that VMware will run a Staro because,
 as you said, the Spero has been our sponsor for some time. And it just shows
 you it's really, it's open source software based on Linux. And that's, that's one
 of the reasons we like a Staro so much. A Staro AST ARO makes the A Staro
 security gateway line of network security compliances, offering complete
 protection from network web and email security threats. I have one and I love
 it. The 120 visit them on the web at AST ARO.com. But I also want to remember
 remind you rather that for those of you listening to us, a Staro is offering
 a free demo unit to test and protect their networks. Call 877-427-8276.
 Say you heard it on security now and you can have a free unit to test 877-427-8276.
 Or visit AST ARO.com. It's a demo unit. Of course, eventually you have
 to give it back. But it's a great way to find out what a Staro's security gateway
 can do for you. They'll ship it to your office or your business in a single
 business day. Call 877-427-8276. And remember to mention security now.
 So you decided that really the best thing to do is stick with VMware.
 Have you been using parallels at all on your Mac?
 I have not. I would love to get your impression of that.
 Yep. And I do have it. I upgraded it recently. And so I do tend to.
 At this point, is the beta for the support for the next generation
 of virtual presentation?
 At least as we're recording, I don't think they've released it yet.
 Okay. They're still in the release candidate stage.
 But it's pretty amazing. It's pretty impressive.
 Well, it'll be interesting to see whether the Mac version of VMware is
 for pay or is free.
 Yeah. No, I don't think they'll give that away. You think they will?
 They might. I don't know. Wow. That would be very aggressive.
 Yeah. And I think you're right. I think it seems unlikely that they would,
 because I would imagine that they're taking it seriously.
 They really want to be VMware on the Mac. Not just sort of something
 they happen to have lying around. Certainly it's an investment for them to do this.
 And I imagine they'll go the full support route
 with all the features of the system, much as they have for their workstation.
 Well, and I think that they saw parallels marching into their territory and said,
 "No, wait. We do that." And I think they think they can do a better job.
 And you know, I wouldn't be surprised. I certainly will look at it.
 And I know you will. And even though this is our last of our series of virtualization,
 I have a feeling we might revisit it when VMware for the Mac comes out.
 I'd love for you to do a virtualization on the Mac show.
 You've got to empower the new Mac.
 Yeah, I have no excuse not to.
 No excuse not to.
 Not to.
 I hear you got some pretty neat spin-right mail the other day.
 I wanted to ask you that.
 Well, yeah. In fact, I mentioned it last week. I couldn't find this letter.
 But the thing that made me think of it was that it was a security now listener.
 Well, he writes, "The topic was another save by spin-right."
 Exclamation point. We love those letters.
 Actually, I have to say, I don't know what's going on,
 but maybe hard disk are having more trouble in the last month.
 But I've been getting a lot of mail from people who are finding real success with spin-right.
 He says, "Dear Steve, please add my name to your long list of happy customers.
 My laptop, which I need tomorrow to teach my anatomy and physiology class,
 would not boot up properly.
 It took 20 minutes to get to my desktop.
 And everything I tried to do had three or four minute delay.
 The computer was unusable.
 I called Dell and the tech walked me through the Dell Diagnostics.
 The hardware all passed, including the hard drive.
 I was unable to use system restore. It crashed.
 The next step was to reinstall XP and, of course, all my programs.
 Fortunately, my data was backed up mostly.
 Still, I had hours and hours of drudgery before me.
 Before taking that drastic measure, I thought I might try the spin-right utility.
 To be honest, I bought spin-right as a way to thank you for your outstanding security now podcast,
 which has brought me so much enjoyment.
 I was afraid it would require more expertise than I had to run it.
 But the program is very well designed. I'm not making this up, Leo.
 The program is very well designed to guide the user through the necessary options.
 I booted up from the spin-right CD and went to the recovery choice number two.
 Then I left it alone. I came back later and saw one of the sectors was bad.
 Spin-right chewed on it for a bit and then was finished.
 I booted up without the CD and Windows ran check disc and up came my login.
 My laptop is now working perfectly.
 Oh, that's a nice feeling.
 He says, "When I took math in college, I learned that some theorem proofs are so beautiful they're called elegant."
 Well, spin-right is an elegant utility.
 It is. It is.
 He says, "It sure saved me tonight. Thank you so much for security now and thanks for spin-right.
 No one who owns a computer should be without it."
 Sincerely, Russ Palmeri.
 Thank you.
 I wrote back to Russ. I said, "Would you mind if I use your name?"
 He says, "I would be proud to have my name associated with spin-right."
 Well, thank you, Russ. I think that's wonderful.
 It's kind of a neat story because he bought it just to support you, but it ended up using it.
 You don't require that, by the way.
 No, no, no.
 In fact, the whole goal here of mentioning spin-right in the podcast,
 I just want to plant the seed in people's minds that when something happens, consider spin-right.
 Think about it because when you need it, it's there.
 I got another letter from someone who said that they had a Mac store that had a problem.
 They ran Mac store's own diagnostics that said, "This is dead. Return it to the factory."
 But they had so much stuff on the drive, not backed up, that they said, "Uhh, grab the copy of spin-right.
 It fixed the drive."
 Wow, that's pretty cool.
 We should probably say that if the drive is physically damaged, nothing's going to fix it.
 But if the drive can be recovered, spin-right can do it.
 I think that's exactly the case.
 If anything can recover the data from the drive, spin-right is the thing that can.
 Spin-right.info, S-P-I-N-R-I-T-E.info for more of those testimonials.
 And of course, grc.com is Steve's site if you want to get the show notes, the 16-kilobit version of this show for the download impaired.
 He also offers transcripts thanks to Elaine, a tip of the hat to Elaine.
 And a great discussion board where you can talk about security matters, not to mention a host of free security software, grc.com.
 As long as you're ahead to the web, I encourage you to visit twit.tv.
 In fact, go to our new Dell picks page, twit.tv/del.
 We thank again, Del, for being a great sponsor on the show and supporting us.
 We have some picks I've picked out.
 I mentioned the 24-inch monitor because I know Steve, you love that monitor, but there's some great machines as well.
 A laptop, a very slick looking laptop, the XPS 1710.
 And then, for more practical people, the Dell XPS 410 computer, which can go from the Pentium D all the way up to a Core 2 Duo.
 So you get your choice of hardware, state-of-the-art technologies at a very affordable price.
 As usual, Dell makes the best stuff.
 Dell is online at our site.
 In fact, we'd appreciate it if you'd show your support for twit by using that site.
 When you go to Dell, just go to twit.tv/del and click the links there.
 Thanks for their support.
 I think, are we done with virtualization?
 Have we covered this in every possible aspect?
 For now.
 For now.
 For now.
 We have a great foundation now.
 Listeners who have been following along since we opened the topic understand where the state-of-the-art is today.
 Certainly, as sandboxing technology evolves, as, for example, as VMware moves to the Mac,
 I imagine we'll come back and touch on it many times in the future, because it's a very potent
 security and privacy application.
 Remember, too, that not just for security, but there's a great concern that web browsing
 leaves traces, leaves footprints.
 In privacy, yes.
 Yes.
 On your machine.
 So sandboxing, again, is a beautiful lightweight solution.
 If you needed to do some use of the internet on somebody else's machine that you didn't
 control, you really wanted to make sure you left no trace behind.
 You could quickly install sandboxing on their machine.
 It is a lightweight, small installation.
 Then use the browser sandboxed knowing that no changes to the registry, to the hard drive,
 or anywhere in their system, will be permanent after you close that down.
 Great solutions.
 We'll certainly have virtual machine technology always sort of flying around here and touch
 on it when something happens.
 Very good.
 I do.
 Thank you for all the work that you do for us.
 If I had everybody go to grc.com and spin right out and try to find out more.
 Join us next week as we talk more about security.
 Do you know yet what we're going to talk about?
 There's going to be a surprise for everyone.
 We'll see you next Thursday and every Thursday.
 We're so glad you've joined us on security now.
