 Netcast you love from people you trust.
 This is Twitch.
 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by AOL Radio at AOL.com/podcasting.
 This is Security Now with Steve Gibson, Episode 59 for September 28th, 2006.
 parallels.
 Security Now is brought to you by a Star of Makers of the Star of Security Gateway on
 the web at www.ASTARO.com
 and by Dell.
 For this week's specials, visit twit.tv/dell
 and by Visa.
 Safer, better money, life takes Visa.
 Welcome to Security Now episode, I'm really confused.
 I think this is 59, it was going to be 58, but we deferred it.
 Steve Gibson is on the line from Irvine.
 Hi Steve.
 Hey Leo, great to be back with you.
 So just a little, you know, behind the scenes here.
 We had finished episode 58, we recorded it in the middle of last week, and it was all
 about parallels.
 You're going to hear it in a minute.
 But what happened was there was a big security breakout all of a sudden, and one of the advantages
 of doing the show, the way we do it, is that we can quickly change it.
 Yeah.
 Well, and it was great too because, you know, essentially you and I were ahead of the curve
 on this.
 In fact, I also jumped on to your KFI show on the weekend, and at that time there was
 very little coverage of it.
 Exactly.
 You commented at the time that, you know, it didn't seem to have picked up nearly as
 much press as we would have expected.
 We're talking about the Windows VLM or VML flaw, which was a very serious flaw that allowed
 a malicious site using a kind of little known graphics format called the Vector Market
 Language Format, to infect any system arbitrarily, no matter how up-to-date its patches were.
 Well, yes.
 And you and I jumped on this because it had all the earmarks of something that was going
 to be just irresistible for the malicious hacker community.
 Well, it was already in the wild, it was already on dozens of sites.
 Well, actually, yes.
 And it spread very quickly through the end of last week and early this week.
 It did exactly as we predicted.
 It appeared in mass emailings and spam.
 You know, basically, this has become a bit of a black industry now on the internet where
 vulnerabilities, as I mentioned before, are sold as commodities because organized crime
 is getting involved and trying to get this stuff installed on people's computers, you
 know, their malicious code.
 So the one bit of news that occurred yesterday, actually the day before yesterday, was Microsoft
 recognized the severity of the problem.
 And we were talking about how people may need to wait as many as three weeks for the second
 Tuesday in October, October 10th, before the next monthly set of patches were rolled out.
 And Microsoft decided this thing was too serious to wait.
 So they issued one of their rare out of order or out of sequence, out of cycle updates.
 So I just wanted to make sure that everyone listening had received the news that Windows
 update is now carrying the fix for this, the official fix.
 Now it doesn't look like they're pushing it, at least you have to go get it, don't you?
 Because I haven't seen it yet.
 Yeah, in fact, if you run Windows Update on your machine, you will get the update.
 But I think it's being moved out relatively slowly.
 So I wanted to let people know, you know, our best advice a week ago was to unregister
 the DLL.
 Applying this patch does not re-register it.
 So the proper sequence would be to go to Windows Update, normally you've got an entry
 there in the menu above your start button, run Windows Update, see that it's giving you
 this updated vulnerability patch.
 It may require you to boot Windows.
 I had to, but I've heard reports that other people do not.
 It may be that XP doesn't need to and Windows 2000, which I'm using, does require a reboot.
 So reboot, if it asks you to, and then re-register the DLL.
 One cool thing also has happened, and that is that a third party has come up with both
 their own patch, which we no longer need, but with a benign test page.
 So what this allows people to do is to test that they are patched by displaying some vector
 markup language rectangles, red rectangles, which won't display at all if the DLL is
 still un-registered, which will crash your browser if you're still vulnerable, but benignly
 crash your browser, it won't hurt you in any way, or will display them if you are patched
 and the DLL is registered.
 I've got a link to that on the show notes from last week that is the episode 58 show
 notes where we had the instructions for un-registering your DLL.
 There's another interesting bit of information that I got a number of emails about this.
 I think I forwarded them along to you.
 I think the first one was from Ian Shane who said that DEP, the data execution prevention
 that's built into the new Intel and AMD processors, prevented this exploit.
 Well, yes, there are, of course, two flavors of DEP.
 There's hardware and software DEP.
 The newer processors support hardware execution prevention, and this is what the...
 This is what we were talking about in our episode talking about buffer overruns.
 Essentially, this buffer overrun is on the stack, and so code is executing in the stack
 that should only be containing data, which means if Windows is told not to allow the
 stack to be executed or executable, it will raise an exception.
 It'll essentially detect that this is going on and say, "Hey, wait a minute.
 Something's fishy somewhere."
 So both hardware and software DEP do catch and did catch for some people this VML exploit.
 The earlier Windows Metafile exploit was not caught by software DEP, only by the more advanced
 and capable hardware DEP.
 Now for hardware DEP to work, you have to have a processor that supports it.
 One with NX or XD capability, I guess.
 One is AMD, and one is Intel's nomenclature.
 And certainly all new processors do that and will be doing that.
 The capability exists in service pack 2 of XP, although it's not enabled by default because
 it does create some false positive problems.
 You're able to enable it per process or sort of globally, and normally it's not on.
 Some people who have turned it on have then dealt with needing to create exceptions when
 it false positives for them.
 So it certainly is useful, and for anyone who was using it already, they were always protected
 from any exploitation from this VML vulnerability.
 Isn't that interesting?
 You open the System Properties Control Panel, you click the Advanced tab, you click the Performance
 button, and then there's a tab on XP service pack 2, and later it says Data Execution Prevention.
 By default it says turn it off for essential Windows programs and services only.
 And I take it, I need to turn it on for all of them.
 Yes.
 Okay.
 Yes.
 So I'm going to click that button right now, and I hope it doesn't crash our recording.
 And of course the reason is that the way this all operates is that that DLL is loaded into
 the context of IE, and so it may be running with administrator privileges, or as a limited
 user privilege, or whatever.
 So you really want the most comprehensive protection you can get there.
 Right.
 Well that's really good news, and I think it was George Wu in the Tech Republic's technical
 director who writes for a block for ZDNet on security, a very good block, I think it was
 the first to note this, but it's worth noting that it's worth turning on depth.
 And certainly if you buy a new hardware, make sure you've got a processor that's a
 hardware depth capable.
 Well, I think we did the right thing by breaking our format and getting to that story early,
 that does, did put off what we're about to talk about, which is virtual machines.
 Well, we thought we were going to be done with virtual machines, but we're not.
 Okay.
 Parallels.
 Oh, the new parallels.
 Well, I've drilled down completely into both the Mac and the windows sides.
 Oh good.
 And you know, because you had mentioned it'd be nice if, you know, I took a look at that
 sometime and I thought, look, better now than later, because right now I have all this in
 my head, I've got, I've got, I've got machines with known performance.
 I've been comparing, well, and the good news is Parallels outperforms everybody else.
 Wow.
 Yeah.
 I mean, tell me all the good news.
 I want to know.
 No, no, no.
 Cool.
 All right, here we go.
 All right.
 Here we go.
 And also, just so you know where we're headed, I also want to talk a little bit about intellectual
 property and patents, because it turns out a hunch I had paid off.
 The reason that VMware has some features nobody else has is they locked it up with intellectual
 property.
 Ah, very interesting.
 And, and so, you know, I'm, as you know, I'm moderately hostile to the notion of, of
 the patent office giving away this property, which is just engineering.
 Right.
 So I thought it'd be fun to talk about that a little bit.
 Good.
 Good.
 So that, or do you want to just have that in the body of it?
 Or do you have anything to catch up on or anything like that?
 Nothing to catch up on.
 So we'll just say, you know, what, what are we talking about?
 Okay.
 This is security now episode 58 for September 21st in three, two, one.
 Time to talk with our virtual security expert.
 He's not virtual.
 He's real, but he talks about virtual security and many other things.
 Steve Gibson.
 Hello.
 Hello, Leo.
 Actually, we are going to talk about virtual stuff again.
 Well, yes.
 You know, it's funny.
 We, uh, I thought I was doing a wrap up of the whole virtual machine topic last week.
 In fact, you wanted me to name it the wrap up and instead I named it virtual PC because
 that's what you talked about.
 And I'm glad.
 Yeah.
 Well, more to say.
 Well, it's, it's interesting because you had mentioned that it would be nice if I sometime
 took a look at parallels, which is the, the, the third, you know, major commercial virtual
 machine offering in the industry, a bunch of people wrote in asking the same thing.
 It's like, gee, Steve, you know, now we know how virtual PC and VMware compare, but what
 about parallels?
 You know, I mean, there it is.
 And, and so I thought, you know, better now than later, I've got machines with known
 performance, you know, memory and so forth that I've been comparing the performance of
 the other guys with that's, you know, that's always a moving target.
 That's going to change in a couple of years.
 So I won't really have that reference.
 I've got all of the, the specifics of this stuff in my head right now.
 So, you know, better now than later, especially when people were saying, Hey, you know, what
 about it?
 And parallels just came out with their at version 2.2.
 They were at the release candidate of 2.2 for their for their PC side virtual machine
 platform, which, which, which achieves like sort of the last little bit of icing on the
 cake.
 I mean, it's some additional really nice features.
 So I thought, okay, let's just we'll do one more on looking at parallels, what it offers,
 how it compares to the others so that we've, you know, really got the topic covered, you
 know, as, as sort of a checkpoint at this point in time.
 Yeah, you know, it's funny because I had never heard of parallels.
 I was very familiar with virtual PC and VMware.
 And I only heard about it as an alternative to run Windows on a Mac.
 And so that's pretty recent.
 But they're not new.
 They've been around for a while, I gather.
 Well, yes, they have been around for a while.
 And in fact, I don't know what their lineage is.
 One thing I want to say, though, before we get into this in more detail is that something
 and it's significant.
 I was talking about the differences between virtual PC and VMware's offerings and about
 the VMware server, which is free and has been, I guess, only since August.
 So this is a pretty recent development that VMware server has been made free versus VMware
 workstation, which is certainly not free.
 VMware workstation is $189.
 So it's a substantial chunk, just shy of $200 for their traditional workstation platform.
 Remember that I said last week that one of the major failings of server was that it lacked
 both sound and USB support.
 Well that was wrong, what happens is when you initially create a VMware server virtual
 machine, they offer you a bunch of sort of default I/O devices and in workstation because
 it has a workstation profile.
 That includes, by default, your sound and USB devices.
 Well, they're there in server but they're not populated by default because the VMware
 server product, which is the free one, is sort of more oriented towards servers where
 they assume you're not going to be needing sound and be plugging USB things in all the
 time.
 That makes sense.
 So it turns out that when you're creating this virtual machine over on the VMware server
 side, right then there's a button below that says add, which allows you to add other things
 in addition, for example, serial and parallel ports, additional hard drives, additional
 CD-ROMs and other stuff.
 And you can add sound and USB at the same time.
 So it really does, it makes the server, the free server offering from VMware substantially
 more appealing.
 You don't have to pay 189 over on the workstation platform to get sound and USB support.
 So I wanted to really clarify that mistake that I made in last week's podcast because
 it means that the free version can be useful for people who do want and need sound and
 USB support.
 All right.
 So that's in virtual PC or the VMware, the free version of VMware.
 The so-called server version.
 So I just said, okay, let's take a look at Parallels.
 Well, Parallels is a completely separate offering from a company called Parallels.
 And they're just www.parallels.com on the net.
 They've got a workstation that is a PC workstation platform which very much like VMware is actively
 friendly to Linux.
 Whereas we'll remember that Microsoft's virtual PC offering is almost openly hostile to anything
 that is not Windows, which is, you know, not sense.
 It's not, exactly.
 It's not surprising that that's the case coming from Microsoft.
 So VMware and Parallels are both absolutely happy and solicitous of installing non-Windows
 things.
 They support every flavor of Linux, I mean, of Linux, you can imagine, free BSD, OS2,
 Warp, Sons, Solaris, I mean, virtually any operating system of a non-Windows nature.
 And of course, all of the Windows platforms as well.
 So you really do have, you know, again, for people who are interested in experimenting
 with other operating systems and using the virtual machine as a platform that really makes
 sense.
 Now, the offerings are not free.
 They're $49 for either the Mac version or the Intel PC version.
 They're $49.
 So it's about a quarter the cost, well, a little more than a quarter of the cost of
 the VMware workstation version.
 I think they raised the price, by the way.
 I think it's now 79.
 Let me know.
 Really?
 Yeah.
 It was 49 in the pre-release when you were, if you wanted to buy the Mac version before
 it was out officially.
 But now it's 79.99 for the Parallels desktop for Mac.
 Okay.
 Still, a lot cheaper.
 The PC version is $49.99.
 Okay.
 That's correct.
 I don't know why they charge more on the Mac side, but they do.
 Well, probably because there's less competition there and, you know, it's a lot of desire.
 It was, you know, it was pretty cheap.
 I bought it in the pre-release and it was, I think it was then it was, it was 49 or less.
 Anyway, it's worth 80 bucks, I think.
 It's a very good one.
 And what's really interesting is performance.
 It outperforms both of the other big guys.
 Really?
 Parallels on the, on a, on a Intel PC platform for its $49, which has complete sound and
 USB support and everything else you want.
 It is faster to install Windows and Windows runs more smoothly in Parallels on a PC.
 It then does VMware or virtual PC from Microsoft.
 And you were testing the new 2.2 version or this?
 Yes.
 Okay.
 Yes.
 I was using the 2.2 version because it was at release candidate at this point and I figured
 it was, you know, I mean, if I had a problem with it, that would be one thing.
 And it ran smoothly with no trouble at all.
 Now, they also offer something that nobody else does, which, which is not free.
 I think it's another $49 and they call it their, their virtual machine compressor.
 Yeah.
 I've seen that.
 I'm trying to think if I need it or not.
 Well, it's interesting.
 It does a really good job over on a Windows side.
 In fact, I was really impressed.
 I should step back a minute and talk about something in all of these virtual machine
 products that we haven't addressed before.
 And that's the notion of, of a fixed size virtual disk versus an expandable or expanding
 one.
 Because the virtual disk is hosted in, in the host machines file system, it looks just
 like, and it is just another file.
 Well, as we know, files are able to grow, you know, actual physical hard disks can't
 do whatever size they are, but, but files in a file system are inherently able to grow.
 So everybody, parallels, VMware and Microsoft's virtual PC, they've got this notion of, you
 don't have to preallocate a blob of space on your file system to, to, to represent the
 virtual disk if you don't want to, you can, you can instead sort of decide, well, we'll
 start at a gig and as, or whatever size, and as we need more, we'll just allocate that
 space growing the virtual disk on the fly.
 Yeah, I, which I think is fantastic.
 I mean, well, yes, it's fantastic though.
 There are some trade offs to this from a, from a, you know, from my standpoint, sort
 of a, uh, assembly coding, hardcore techie, the idea of, of doing that and doing it efficiently
 sort of makes my skin crawl, because you mean, it'd be a wasted time resizing the disk and
 so forth or well and fragmentation, because you're, you're going to be inherently any
 file which is growing in a file system that's got other files growing, they generally end
 up running into each other and that's where fragmentation comes from.
 So what you'd optimally like to do would be, for example, to defragment your host's file
 system to get all of its, you know, to, to, to, to, to get all of its files contiguous
 and compress them so that there's no empty space in between files, then you'd create
 a virtual disk which is one single large contiguous piece of, of, of hard disk space in the host's
 file system and that would tend to give you overall much better performance and in fact,
 that's exactly the way the, the, the any of our paging files or our swap files operate.
 They sit there and I mean, they really want to be a fixed size.
 Now, it is the case that Windows does the sort of the same sort of thing with its paging
 file, but everyone who knows how to optimize Windows performance deliberately keeps Windows
 from increasing and decreasing the size of its paging file, you just admit you always,
 when you're setting up Windows, you, you set it to a fixed size, set the minimum and maximum
 size to the same value, so Windows is never able to change it and it does a substantially
 better job because it's not then, the paging file is not then mixing itself in with all
 the other files on the file system.
 Now, can't you also do that with these virtual machines, can't you say, I don't want a growing
 size disk, I want a static size disk.
 Exactly.
 And in fact, so I wanted to talk about this, this dynamic or growing option and explain
 that in fact, the intuition about this sort of being a performance hit is exactly on the
 money.
 They all say you can use a dynamic size disk, but it will give you lower performance than
 laying out a fixed size disk from the beginning.
 And there are substantial optimizations that the virtual machine can do and if it knows
 that this disk is not going to be changing size, it's able to, like, like, like, pre-determine
 where the pieces are and make its accesses into the file system substantially fast.
 So it's not merely defragment, or fragmentation that's the issue, it is, it's just inherently
 inefficient.
 Yes.
 It's a, it's a convenience that comes at a cost.
 Now, did you benchmark the two different ways of doing it?
 I mean, is it does it, in fact, hit the speed?
 Yes, I didn't benchmark so that I, so to the degree that I have an exact number in, like,
 in terms of relative performance, but you can, you can feel that things are slower, especially
 on a system that, that has, you know, less than RAID 5 screaming S-A-T-A drives.
 I mean, you can see more disk performance and it's clearly slower.
 But all of this comes back to this compressor program, which is interesting from parallels,
 because it will compress to varying degrees any of the virtual machines of any of these
 manufacturers.
 It'll, it will work with Microsoft's virtual PC and VMware's products as well as their
 own.
 And the results are very impressive.
 For example, I set up, over on, on my, uh, Intel platform, the, the standard PC, I set
 up a four gig fixed partition in which I installed Windows XP, did all the security updates,
 um, you know, registered it with Microsoft, got it all up and going, you know, and, and,
 and all tuned up.
 Then you can, you can convert, um, with, uh, with, with parallels, you're able to convert
 a, a, a static, um, image into one of these dynamic images and back and forth.
 So it's nice.
 It really is nice.
 Um, one of the things, one of the reasons you do that is if you want to compact this,
 for example, to make it more portable, the, the dynamic disks naturally compact a great
 deal more because they're not establishing, for example, in this case, a four gig footprint
 that says, okay, I am, you know, this four gigs is all of my virtual disks.
 There's lots of slack space in there.
 It's not, it's not you.
 So you just take that out.
 Well, exactly.
 And in fact, you know, people are used to laying up, you know, 80, 100, 120 gig drives
 and installing XP into it.
 I'm, you know, being old fashioned and, and remembering the days when we had, you know,
 20 megabyte drives, um, I'll often create a four gig partition to hold XP and then move
 all of the, um, media files or other stuff I'm doing into its own partition so that I'm
 able to make reasonable size backups or images of just the, the XP partition.
 So in this case, I created a four gig partition and installed XP into it.
 A four gig, uh, parallels partition, converting it from a static, a static drive to parallels
 dynamic drive the, you know, the variable sizing drive brought that four gigs.
 It was actually four, nine, six megabytes, you know, binary megabytes, um, brought it
 down to 24, oh, six, then running their compressor on it brought it down to two, one, zero,
 two, eight, megabytes.
 So just over one gig.
 And then what's very, yeah, I mean, it's very, very huge reduction.
 Is it actually compressing like zip would compress or no, I mean, what it does is it's
 sort of, it, it squeezes out the air from the file, but it's, it's still completely usable.
 You're able to use it.
 You're able to mount it and boot it.
 But what's very cool is then exit exiting from the virtual machine that is shutting it
 down and zipping it, which, you know, basically containerizes it, of course, brought it down
 to 417 makes so all of the size, it's a tenth the size of what it originally was and wouldn't
 leave it like that.
 Would you?
 I mean, you, well, you couldn't, you couldn't use it like that, but you can transport it.
 And that's what I'm really interested in that because I'm, I just got a new Mac Pro and
 I want to move my parallels over to the Mac Pro.
 So I wouldn't have it.
 And I made a 10 gigabyte parallel.
 So I would like to just compress the heck out of it.
 That's correct.
 Yes.
 And, and so, is it worth 50 bucks to do that?
 I mean, now, well, first of all, for you got a free demo.
 So you're able, you're able to give it a try and exactly see, see, see what, what, you
 know, essentially what, what exact operation you get from it.
 It's also the case that zipping, even the non compressed one certainly did reduce it
 in size.
 I didn't write down the number, although I did that experiment and it brought it way
 down.
 You'd expect it to because it knows about, you know, a string of zeros, you know, empty
 space and it would compress that very efficiently.
 Exactly.
 Although I've got to say that what their compressor does and the reason it's cross platform, that
 is the reason it's able to compress a, a VMware and a virtual PC and I watched it carefully
 what it was, as it was operating and it's got a ton of features, it's, it looks like an ISO,
 it is an ISO, it's a C, it's a CD image.
 So you, and you get it that small, you might be able to burn it to a CD.
 Well, 417 megs fits on just, I mean, a standard CD and you, and you could imagine installing
 a bunch of more applications, I mean, now this, this was a recently installed and set up XP
 that didn't have office installed and, you know, all the apps and other stuff.
 Certainly that would tend up, that would tend to make the resulting, the resulting compressed
 one substantially bigger.
 But you know, here we are.
 I mean, it was a fully finished, configured, fully updated XP at 417 megs and parallels
 itself is not very big.
 You could put this and parallels and your registration information on a CD or even on
 a 500 and K, a 512 megs dongle and have a basically a portable, installable running
 Windows XP that you, that you're able to put wherever you are.
 Now the compressor is Windows and Linux only, but I could run it, I could take my little
 thing and put it on all my Linux machine and compress it there.
 Also now, but getting back to what it does is it's very interesting, it, it, it is, it
 mounts as an ISO, so that's how it's able to get into any of these virtual machines.
 They're all, they're all able to mount images and then, and then they look like CD ROMs.
 Yeah.
 Exactly.
 They appear as a CD ROM and then then execute as a CD ROM, even though it's actually just
 an image file, an ISO image of a CD ROM.
 How I installed windows and parallels, for some reason it couldn't read my disk, but I
 just made an ISO of the disk and installed from that ISO very nicely.
 You just mounted the ISO.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Well, so what this thing does is it knows all about ways that windows wastes space.
 It knows about, you know, downloaded stuff you no longer need.
 It knows about your temporary internet folders.
 It knows about your, your windows temporary space.
 It knows about, you know, all kinds of things, it even does some registry compaction.
 It really knows about what windows is doing and, and, I mean, just squeezes it to pieces
 so that it's, it's substantially smaller than it was before.
 Now, let me ask you a question and you may not know the answer to this, but this, this,
 this really has been bugging me.
 If I authenticate windows in, in this virtual machine and then, you know where I'm going
 and then I moved over to another machine, is the virtual machine the same, does it look
 the same to a Microsoft or is it a new machine?
 It's the same.
 So I was wondering.
 Oh, wow.
 Yep.
 I was wondering the same thing myself.
 This is great.
 And in fact, it really, it really is nice.
 I mean, you know, you're the owner, you're the user, it's your license copy of windows.
 Why shouldn't you be able to run that one?
 It's not like you're running, you know, you know, but it means, for instance, I can move
 it to, I have it on my laptop, I can put it on my desktop and I can run it there.
 I don't have to reauthenticate and if I trash it, I throw it out and I have another duplicate
 copy, now only 400 megabytes.
 And I restore it from that and I'm back to where I was with no authentication involved.
 Yep.
 No windows, genuine advantage.
 Bogos.
 Yep.
 It's really interesting too, because XP bit me very early on.
 One of the things that I have always enjoyed doing actually before I was, I started using
 VMware workstation as much is I would, I would create one install, for example, of Windows
 2000 and make an image of it, then using partition magic.
 I chop a big drive up into multiple, you know, four gig partitions, maybe have 20 of them.
 And then I would, I would, I would unimage my, my image into each of those partitions,
 creating basically, you know, little clone, four gig, bootable Windows 2000 installations.
 And then I would, would, would boot them in turn and install different software.
 For example, this is the way I used to be testing firewalls and things.
 Perfect.
 Yeah.
 Well, they're completely intact and you don't, you know, they're identical and you can start
 over at any point with an identical system.
 Exactly.
 Well, Windows XP immediately put a halt to that.
 The moment, you know, I, I did the whole thing, I unpacked it into a new partition.
 I said, wait a minute.
 This is a new world.
 I need to reauthenticate.
 Every time.
 Every time.
 Oh.
 Yeah.
 Well, packaging them in virtual machines avoids that problem.
 So the, the MAC address is the same, the, the, all the hardware looks the same and it's
 very generic.
 That's the another advantage you mentioned this earlier that, you know, you don't have ever,
 ever hardware compatibility issues because it's all very generic.
 Well, and it's, it's absolutely the true.
 It's absolutely true that, that using this kind of virtualization hides, I mean, it hides
 it perfectly.
 It must have a MAC address.
 It must have a common MAC address then.
 Well, actually it's got a, it's got a completely virtual adapter, which is not even the same
 make or model as any of your external adapters.
 So it's, it is absolutely creating an adapter and I, you know, I'm sure this is a benefit
 which is not often spoken of and advertised, but it's very convenient.
 Yeah.
 You know, you know, great for me.
 I mean, I bought, I went out and bought a full bore copy of Windows for 300 bucks.
 I'd like to be able to install it in a virtual machine on two different machines.
 I'm never going to use it at the same time.
 Right.
 And there's only one of you.
 There's only one of me.
 It's the same copy of Windows.
 I'm not giving it to anybody.
 This would be a great convenience.
 I haven't yet taken the MAC Pro out of the box, but I will do some benchmarks before next
 week.
 Well, because it's a quad processor, you know, it's a wood crest.
 It should, it should run very nicely.
 And I got four gigs of RAM, so I'll be able to allocate a full gig or more to Windows
 and so.
 Well, that's a very, that's a very good point too.
 I want to make sure people understand that we've been talking about virtual machines.
 I haven't talked about the, their consumption of resources explicitly, but the, this, all
 of this virtual machine stuff is extremely resource hungry.
 Basically when you're running a virtual machine, you are taking a chunk of RAM from your main
 machine.
 And we all know our main machines need all the RAM they've got.
 You're taking a chunk of RAM completely away from your host machine and giving it to the
 virtual machine.
 So it's very much the case that, you know, these are RAM hungry games that we're playing.
 And so, and so yeah, four gigs, I mean, you know, it's a good thing that the RAM cost
 has come down as much as it has because, you know, for, for people who want to really play
 with virtual machine technology, RAM is the, is the asset which is most quickly consumed.
 I can't say what it's like on Windows, but on a Mac running Intel, two gigs is the minimum.
 You need a gig for the Mac OS and a gig for the Windows OS and it actually, you end up
 allocating maybe something more like 900 some megabytes to the Windows OS, but it, it runs
 very nicely when you have that RAM.
 Well, let me tell you, you remember, we'll remember that when I got this MacBook Pro,
 I immediately saw, well, what am I going to do with a Mac, aside from using it for the
 intended purpose, which was to, to do some iChat.
 So I immediately installed bootcamp, chopped the drive in half.
 Remember it was an 80 gig drive, I chopped it into 240 gig partitions.
 Um, wait a minute, no, I think I initially, I, I, I, I tan is the default, so you might
 have done.
 Yeah, I will know.
 I, I, I'm sure I did at least 40.
 I was thinking maybe I gave Windows even more than half because I thought I'm never going
 to use this Mac.
 Oh, you big at you.
 So I, I set up bootcamp, installed XP, you know, used it, got a, a feel for it.
 And as I began to be more familiar with the Mac, I, I would kill off Windows and move the
 partition further and further over so that, you know, Windows was getting less and less
 memory until finally it's, it's gone completely.
 There's no more bootcamp, but Mac has, you can still run Windows.
 You can use the Mac and whenever you need Windows, it's there.
 I mean, well, that's where I'm hitting with this Leo.
 I can tell you now, I, that there is no perceptible difference in it.
 I mean, none in running Windows XP under parallels in a virtual machine, especially if you go
 full screen.
 I mean, even if you window the windows in the Mac screen, it still is incredibly smooth.
 It is better on, on, on this Mac Pro actually than it is over on my PC that is parallels
 is.
 Although the PC only has a gig of memory and it's got a two gig processor.
 So it's a, it's a, it's a, it's not the pro duo, you know, triple scoop machine that the
 Mac Pro Pro has, but it is, if you, if you window it, you, there is an, I can tell no
 difference between it and when I was booting Windows XP natively through boot camp, it
 is, it is an absolute solution that is parallels is for, for people with a strong Mac book that
 want to run Windows at the same time.
 Yeah, I, I have been very happy, but I'm really glad to hear that it is as fast because that's,
 that's really encouraging.
 And I can't wait to see how it runs on this, uh, on this giant dual Zeon.
 I mean, this should be fantastic. I mean, it should be as good as my Windows machine.
 Yeah, I, I, I would, I would challenge anyone to do a side by side comparison.
 I will.
 And determine determine whether it's XP is booted natively or running in a, in a window.
 And also parallels has complete support for both the Intel VT and the AMD, um, next generation
 of virtualization technology is already in parallels.
 So you are getting the advantage of, of, of the latest virtualization technology being
 leveraged in there.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 It's pretty.
 It's, you know, as we've been talking about a little for the last few weeks, it's, it's
 really neat technology that has, that has totally matured now and is usable.
 And really any serious computer user should be, should be using one of these solutions.
 Well, and I mean, these are heavyweight solutions and I'll remind people that if all you really
 want is browser containment or email containment that a program that we talked about, you know,
 sandboxy is, is still a really nice alternative.
 It is much lighter weight, doesn't have the RAM consumption stuff and so forth.
 But for, for ultimate security and for experimenting with other operating systems, for example,
 Windows on a Mac, Linux on a PC where you want to install, oh, I mean, free BSD, you know,
 anything runs in these virtual machines.
 Now, one feature is sort of, I noticed it wasn't, well, it wasn't present in parallels
 that it is something that the VMware guys have always had and it's the notion of checkpointing
 your system in, in, in, in the workstation product, the $189 VMware workstation.
 They've got some, some extensive capabilities that allow you to, for example, create a checkpoint
 in time which you're able to come back to easily if something damages one of your virtual
 machines and it's very useful for software testing.
 You could be, you know, single step debugging and get to a point where you're afraid you
 might lose control of the machine and the debugger, make a checkpoint in the virtual
 machine and know that you're able to, you know, virtually turn back the clock to exactly
 that point.
 Also in VMware, I mean, there are some fancy things they've got.
 For example, you, you're able to, to create a disk which is sort of the reference and
 always reboot with the same one so that any changes made to it on the fly are not retained.
 You're also able to use a single disk and then branch from it other virtual machines
 whose, where only the changes to that reference disk are maintained separately, you know,
 so that you don't have, so, so you're not, you know, you don't, you don't need to create,
 for example, you know, multiple 10 gig files each in a virtual machine.
 You can create one as the reference and then you're able to create other virtual machines
 branching off of that master copy, some very fancy things.
 Those are missing in their server product.
 They do allow you to have a checkpoint but only one and you're able to come back to that
 checkpoint.
 Whereas under the workstation, you have, you have multiple checkpoints.
 Well, it was interesting that, that, that feature isn't in parallels nor in virtual PC.
 Microsoft has a cloning notion but not all this fancy stuff and it was, I was thinking
 about, well, you know, maybe in the next version, we would get that because, you know, it's
 another feature that would be nice and then I had a hunch.
 It's like, wait a minute, you know, I remember seeing a long list of patent numbers over
 on the VMware site and in the, in the about box.
 And so I did a little bit of research and sure enough, I mean, for example, well, these
 guys are patent happy, the VM where guys are.
 Well, now we know why they certainly have a business advantage for them.
 Well, filed back in October of, of 98 is a, you know, patent 6397242 which is titled virtualization
 system including a virtual machine monitor for a computer with a segmented architecture,
 which sort of sounds like a generic description of virtual machine technology.
 Well, that's interesting, I'm surprised then that we're seeing so many competitors.
 Well, the problem is that there are limits to what you can patent because some of this
 is just, is fundamental technology.
 Right.
 Some stuff.
 I mean, if it's built into the processor, you can't very well claim you, you got it exclusively.
 Well, exactly.
 And as we were saying, as Intel and AMD are putting more native virtualization support
 into the hardware, which of course is what all the blue pill stuff was that we talked
 about a couple of weeks ago, as that's happening, these early advantages are being lost.
 Well, let's see, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine counting patents.
 Yes, I'm counting patents, 13, 13 patents.
 And I got down as I was doing this research to six, seven, nine, five, nine, six, six,
 filed on February 4th of 2000 and it was issued on September 21st of 2004. Get this. Mechanism for
 restoring, porting, replicating and checkpointing, computer systems using state extraction. The
 abstract of the patent says a computer system is interrupted and its entire state information is
 extracted as one or more checkpoints at one or more respective points during operation of the
 system. The checkpoint may be restored into the system at any later time even multiple times and
 it may also even be loaded into one or more other systems. All systems loaded with the same checkpoint
 will then execute from the same checkpointed state. The state extraction mechanism is preferably a
 virtual machine monitor on which one or more virtual machines are installed. Each virtual machine
 constituting an encapsulated virtualized computer system whose states can be checkpointed under
 control of the virtual machine monitor. Checkpoints may be stored on a portable memory device or
 transmitted as a batch or dynamically over a network so that even virtual machines installed at
 different sites may execute from the same state. That's a patent. Yeah. And they pretty much sounds
 like they've locked that down. Yes. That's why you're not seeing it in other programs. We're gonna
 see that. That's why you're pretty $189 ladies and gentlemen. Exactly. I mean that's basically
 that's what it comes down to. They have a patent on this. Clearly this is something that is is cool
 technology. They got here's the thing. I mean if you need it it's cool and certainly if you're a
 programmer or you're doing you know you're messing with the system or probably a lot of things you do
 that's great. But to me raw speed is what I'm looking for. I want it just a standard Windows
 system that gives me the best speed. And I'm glad you said that Leo because virtual PC for
 Microsoft and parallels from parallels these are still completely usable systems. In fact
 although they can't and don't call it well I guess they could call it a checkpoint but in
 parallels you can they have they have UI support for cloning disks. So you're able to create one.
 At a point by cloning it basically. Exactly. Exactly. It's not a good idea. As you do your install
 and build you clone it several times if you've got the hard drive space so that you can you know
 you can have a basic system with just windows and one with all of office installed and so forth.
 That would actually be useful to me. Well and in fact it would solve the problem that I had that
 I you I solved with VMware workstation which I had already owned so you know I already paid I already
 paid the money where I have about about 15 different windows XP systems all with different
 fire software firewalls installed. So you go right up to the point of installing the firewall.
 Yep. You checkpoint it and then you can make 15 different clones. Well or you clone it.
 Right. And then you just use rubber stamp out these cloned copies. I can't wait to play with this.
 And then and then you switch among them. So I need a bigger hard drive in that machine.
 I know and I had to tell them to get it there. I want more copies of windows.
 Well yes you do need memory and certainly a bigger hard drive. You know all these little
 virtual machine checkpoints or clones give you you know something to do with all that hard drive
 space that you've got left around. And then of course managing them becomes a problem because
 it's like wait a minute. Where's the copy of the whole world? Oh but it's cool. It's like a toy
 chest. Well let's see. Today shall I launch BSD, Linux, Windows XP and E. Oh I can't decide.
 Yes and it really does allow you. I mean to to to save what it is you were doing many times.
 I'll also set up a system and say well okay I probably don't I'm not gonna need this again.
 I'll reformat the drive a couple weeks later. It's like oh I wish I had that still. And this
 allows you to save those states save those experiments on drives which are now so inexpensive and so
 large. Well and it's a good argument for spending the 50 bucks in compressor. Does VMware have
 something comparable to compressor? No that's a nice feature because if you do have you know 20
 different builds to get them down to a reasonable size makes a lot of sense. Yes VMware does have
 the notion of well okay I said they don't have anything comparable to compressor which is true
 but they do have all these well the VMware workstation has all these other features.
 For example that if I had a single master copy of Windows that I then wanted to branch off 15
 instances to install different software firewalls. I mean that would be very efficient because I
 would then have one single master copy if all I'm doing is installing 15 different software firewalls
 you would imagine that the forks from that master copy would each be relatively small
 not 15 more sets of the entire hard drive. Right. So so it is the case that the VMware workstation
 as you said that's what you're getting for your 189. Right. Because you're getting something that
 they patented starting you know six years ago and it got the patent two years ago that allows them
 this kind of flexibility that nobody else is able to copy. You know it's funny because
 if you do a cooking show you get very hungry sometimes and you just can't wait after the show
 run out. This is the first time in a geek show I've gotten just I cannot wait to start playing
 with this I'm just excited about this this notion and you know the timing is right with with release
 candidate one of Vista and presumably a new release candidate soon and a ready to manufacture
 in a final release. I don't mind testing Vista now because I can do it safely. Yes you can do it safely
 you've got as we talked about before the notion of running Vista in a system where even Windows XP
 runs more sluggishly I would have a problem with that because Vista by all reports is a massive
 slow hook so but you know over on the Mac in parallels XP runs as fast as it does natively.
 I mean I see no difference there and I would imagine on a really strong PC platform which I was
 deliberately not using for these experiments because I wanted to get some I wanted to be able to
 sense the relative performance of these things that's how I was able to determine that parallels
 for its $49 is faster than VMware server or even virtual machine virtual PC which is free
 it's faster on the on the platform where I was doing all that common testing. I have some I'll
 run some of the standard benchmarks but I have some other benchmarks that are CPU bound that I might
 run for instance I have a chess program called junior which is I think the current world champion
 chess program and it has a benchmarking it's a multi I have the multi-processor enabled version
 and it has a benchmarking feature and that's seep that's pure CPU so bet I'll bet that wouldn't
 give you a really like like a user experience. No it's very synthetic but it might be an interesting
 to see how the CPUs run. It would be it would be interesting. Yes it would be interesting to see
 or it would be interesting to verify that no CPU power is lost in the virtual machine. I mean we
 know that there's other issues of course with the overall speed but CPU is the one you're worried
 about right because it seems yes it seems to be well I think UI is the more perceptible difference.
 I mean I wouldn't want to do any you know you know intensive UI stuff on in a virtual machine
 where you know just dragging windows around and resizing things and and scrolling my browser was
 a lot slower. And those are very demanding and of course the how well the graphics card is is
 emulated is a key feature in performance and that is one of the things I check almost immediately is
 I click the start menu how fast do I see that menu I do a deal a few hands in solitaire things
 like that are really good ways to kind of get a gauge how responsive it is and I have to say
 parallels as far as I'm concerned feels as responsive as windows and you're right that's the main
 issue whether you lose 20% in your chest calculations is secondary to whether you can actually use a
 responsive computer. Yes and essentially for people who are browsing certainly the UI is the UI
 performance is important. I would expect no CPU power reduction in a virtual machine because you
 know the CPU is the thing they have most in common between the virtual environment and the host
 environment. I guess you're testing what that little layer between you and the processor and
 how much of that is yes and most of most of that abstraction layer as it's termed is IO and device
 oriented it is you know we're we're virtualizing the sad we're virtualizing USB and the ethernet
 adapter and and the graphics card so it's the IO which is where the virtual machine boundary
 intersects the host machine environment right right right that's cut anyway that's kind of what
 you I wanted to look at anyway this will be fun to tell I'll give you some benchmark results I'll
 see if I can download one of the standard benchmarks and just give you some benchmark results because
 I mean given that I'm throwing so much CPU at this thing and so much memory it should be as fast as
 my standalone windows machines that's my hope I mean what I did is I I bought a large 30 inch
 monitor and because right now I run side by side windows and piece and Mac and the editing
 software is running on Windows and the recording software is running on Windows but Skype's running
 on the Mac I do all the editing on Windows but I do a lot of the production of the website and
 what I'd like to do is put it all in one window and have a Windows vision you know view in that
 window and a Mac view in that window and do them both together yep be very interesting to see how
 this works yep I'm excited well it's it's really nice technology that has arrived and for anyone
 who's a Mac user take a look at parallels everything from parallels has a 15 day free trial right
 you you register on their site and they give you one of those you know humongous
 keys that Microsoft first popularized you know for five groups of four characters and digits and
 you you drop that in and it just immediately authorizes your system with a 15 day trial
 I bought this stuff because you know like you Leo I really expect to be using it the idea
 of being able to easily fire up Windows oh and I ought to also comment that and I haven't mentioned
 one other feature a common feature of all of these is you're able to pause the running windows very
 much like you know windows can be put into standby or into hibernate you're able to do that with any
 of these operating systems so so you you could pause a free bsd for example that doesn't have that
 sort of a standby feature and what it does it just saves the state of the entire machine in a file
 which you're able to to resume and it's often the case that resuming a booted instance of windows
 is much faster faster than then then firing up a blank virtual machine and then and then
 booting windows in that virtual machine and imagine having a you know three windows open at once
 running three did for an operating systems uh I mean that's just uh really kind of nirvana of course
 you have to have a lot of memory for that you really do and you know and again I sort of I think about
 about the profile of you know of young hackers uh you know white hat hackers good guy hackers who
 are just interested in experimenting with this and and and and for them VMware server that does
 give you all these features that is a mature product and free let you create these these virtual
 environments and install any operating system you can find Steve once again a great subject uh I
 don't think anybody minds hearing more about virtualization uh and of course whenever a topic
 is worth talking about Steve that's the great thing about podcasts we will take as long as we need
 to cover it well it is it is clearly something which is moving to the fore as our hardware supports
 it to a to a greater and greater degree and from a security standpoint it provides the most
 robust form of protection you can get without using an entirely physically separate machine
 you know that's one step further but it's much less convenient to do so and I mean it offers so
 many features and flexibilities for like running other operating systems and you know VMware also
 has those appliances that are ready made launchable open source free appliances that you're able to
 run in their free server or in their workstation platform yeah that would be an argument to buy VMware
 that's kind of a neat thing the VMware is done yes is it's it's now just retouching the speed
 issue is it really really really much faster to use parallels or are they are they close enough
 that some of these other advantages of VMware might push you in that direction um I love my
 client's idea yes I do too and my feeling is that the machine I was testing on was underpowered
 for running virtual machines all of them were were sluggish and clearly I was in a containment
 environment right however I have a much faster machine where I where I have VMware um workstation
 installed the one I was talking about where I was on stall in the various software firewalls
 right and I'm sure there's I don't feel any VM overhead on that platform so if you've got a
 state-of-the-art machine with for example two gigs of memory versus one gig right um and plenty
 of hard drive space I think the VMware solution is fine of course and they have announced they
 announced at the most recent Mac developers conference VMware said they would be moving over to the
 Mac yeah I signed up immediately so yeah we don't know if it'll be free or commercial or what the
 pricing to pay for but I would imagine you probably will it'll be it'll be worth it and I will certainly
 buy a copy of that as well and I'll give you a report at least from the Mac side because that's
 probably where I'm gonna do it uh that's where my that's the most powerful machine I have right now
 so yes I would say on a strong machine as long if you don't want all the fancy cloning check
 pointing branching forking you know fallback stuff that is patented and is available only
 in the entire industry only in VMware's workstation product then and if you're if you have no interest
 at the moment in the Mac side then VMware server is a great solution and as I said it's right
 correcting correcting my mistake before they don't default to those other devices the sound in USB
 but it's at it's readily edible right from the get-go when when you're setting up your any virtual
 machine uh from scratch VM world is coming up in November at the LA convention center I have a
 feeling you may be there and have an update be really fun to see what's going on I might come
 down to join you yeah cool that'd be fascinating Steve once again a great show thank you so much
 you want to thank our sponsors for making this show possible and there are a number of sponsors
 this is our last week uh for Visa we do thank them it's been a great month of September Visa was
 as as many as agencies are doing and many companies are doing now testing podcasting to see if it
 gives them their kind of results they want uh you know we've been talking all month long about
 Visa Visa security why it's better to use your Visa card online uh certainly when I make purchases
 I I use my Visa and we encourage you to keep doing so and when you get a chance when you get a chance
 take the survey we're going to put on our site uh to see how well these Visa ads worked remember
 the slogan safer better money life and to it takes Visa also want to thank Dell Dell's going to be
 with us for a lot longer uh Dell is a a sponsor of uh this show and Twit and inside the net and
 you can find out more about our great Dell deals what we've done because we can't these podcasts
 live on so long we can't really quote a price on on Dell equipment because uh who knows what it'll
 be in next month or in six months so what we do is we send you to the web page Dell has a special
 Leo's picks page at twit.tv/dell twit.tv/dell and right now on the page the Dell Dimension B 110 a
 great Vista compatible computer for an amazing an amazing price and uh if you're looking for a
 laptop the Inspiron um or Inspiron depending on your point of view e1405 dual core for uh again an
 amazing price just check it out twit.tv I can't it's hard it's hard to say the price is so low
 it's I really want it but I can't because it it may change so go to twit.tv/dell and you'll see
 and uh and then I hope you will consider Dell for your next PC certainly uh that's what we're
 gonna do uh we're buying new PCs at call for help and as always we're we're using Dell's we
 also want to thank I'm doing them all at once here let's let's uh let's get it all out of the way
 the star o the great star o who's been with security now from the very beginning I really
 appreciate our relationship with a star o because um they early on uh came forward and said we we
 want to support security now they've never asked us how many people listen they've been we they just
 they just believe in the show and they wanted to keep it on the air and boy that that just really
 feels great so well and for what it's worth it's about a hundred thousand listeners right
 oh yeah I mean they're getting their money's worth believe or no what was it 120 I can't remember
 what the last number is yeah I think it had gone up a little bit since our last uh our last check
 as it turns out if they were to ask for numbers they would get me getting a better deal than they
 thought but they don't ask and I kind of I kind of appreciate that they they just believe in the
 show uh if you want to know about a star o star o software uh you can get by the way as a listener
 a free demo in your office of the amazing star o gateways there's a a gateway to fit all of your
 needs budget and price-wise you get security you get uh firewalling uh anti-spam anti-virus
 uh really a powerful package you might want to give a star o a ring to find out more a s t or
 you can go online as t ar o dot com that's the uh that's the website and the phone number is
 it will come up here in just a second I don't I don't have it right off the top of my head
 pop up here it is or you can call them eight seven seven for a star o that's eight seven seven
 four a s t ar o to schedule your free trial of the star o security gateway appliance in your
 business thank you very much to del to visa to a star o for a supporting uh security now normally
 we will not do uh three ads in one podcast by the way don't don't freak out folks uh that was uh
 that was just an accident this is the one podcast Steve where everybody wants to be on it
 well i'm glad proud of yourself we uh we certainly give it our best everybody wants to be on
 security now Steve's uh show notes and uh a 16 kilobit version for the bandwidth challenged
 our online at his website grc dot com the gibson research corporation uh that's where you'll
 also find shields up and all of his free security programs and of course the ultimate hard drive
 recovery and maintenance utility everybody if you've got a hard drive you ought to have
 spin right s p i n r i t e if you want more information and some testimonials spin right dot info or
 just go to g r c dot com that's the home of steve gibson and spin right how are those c s s
 menus working for you um actually i've been getting ready to get back to that i've uh i haven't yet
 deployed them site wide but the the page that we talked about um really has been popular last
 time i looked about 850 people a day wow we're looking at at that menu page i have to when i see
 we're going to go down to a podcast expo um a week from uh uh from today actually because i'm going
 down to the podcast academy on thursday i'm going to lecture at the podcast academy i think there
 are still a few seats there uh there's a banner on the uh twit home page twit dot tv if you're
 interested and then podcast expo uh we're going down there Steve we we ought to tell people about
 it Lee on case we've got Lee we have to see us who want to come by yeah come see us it's uh in
 Ontario California it'll be uh friday the 29th and saturday the 30th of september uh you and i
 will both be there on friday on friday only yeah i'm i can't have to come back and do the radio show
 but i'm doing the keynote you know who's following me on the keynote i'm kind of excited the producer
 of um yeah battle star galactica star galactica yeah i'm so excited so uh this will be a chance
 for me to uh you know i just started watching it and i've been loving it i'm a fanatic now so
 Ron Moore and one of the reasons Ron's air is because they've been very forward-looking uh putting
 battle star galactica online and so forth so he'll be talking about that but i was just gonna say
 when i'm down there Steve and we're doing a live podcast at two o'clock from the exhibit hall on
 the main stage there but when i'm down there i have a new book that i just got from o'Reilly uh css
 the missing manual the book that should have been in the box maybe i'll give you this to you and
 i'd love it yeah because i think you i think you need to uh now that you've actually understand
 css better than most it'd be kind of fun for you to see what what they're saying about it
 and it is a it is a spaghetti yes so i'll be talking about podcasting's terrible twos
 very cool that will be uh nine o'clock in the morning on friday and actually the the timing of
 the um the battle star guy is is great too because this friday uh i mean tomorrow
 is the season finale of both star gate s g one and star gate in lantis and battle star starts up
 with its 2.5 episode 2.5 i was gonna say it's like they're they're they're like they have a funny
 season numbering yeah season 2.5 which is bizarre uh i'm just catching up i'm finishing up season one
 and i'm gonna i'm gonna catch up with season two and then i'll be ready but it's boy is that a great
 show it is you know who told me about megan moroni and her husband marco they're big fans and i
 said wait a minute you mean the one with a little robot and a guy in the cheesy side no no no not
 the original battle star galactic of the new one and then i started i watched the mini series oh boy
 oh is that a good show yeah i love it but that's uh that's not an ad we're just talking
 that's just us that's just us podcast expo dot com or just go to twit dot tv uh for uh a link to that
 and uh i hope we'll see you there be fun to see everybody out there i also want to mention that
 our new windows vista podcast launches tomorrow paul tharratt of win super site dot com and windows
 it pro one of the i think probably the best windows guy out there because he's honest he's outspoken he
 really tells it like it is will be our host it's going to be very much in the format of security
 now paul and i'll be talking about issues in windows i think i i think our windows i think our first
 show will be a review of rc one of vista uh from time to time interviews though uh in fact one of
 our plans is to get jim alchen uh as he leaves microsoft his exit interview so that's going to
 be a fun podcast we don't know what we're going to call it yet but you'll find out tomorrow when we're
 releasing all right enough business time to say goodbye and thank you steven i'll see you next
 thursday always it's leisurely and take care thanks for joining us this is leo le port we'll see you next
 time on security now security now
