 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by AOL Radio at AOL.com/podcasting.
 This is Security Now is Steve Gibson, episode 52 for August 10th, 2006.
 Security Bulletins.
 Security Now is brought to you by a starro, makers of the a starro security gateway on
 the web at www.astarro.com.
 Time for security now and well, maybe an anniversary, maybe not depending on how sticky you want
 to get about your definitions.
 It's episode 52, Steve Gibson.
 Yeah, I actually got some mail from people who were saying, "You know, it's not this
 episode that's going to be the anniversary.
 It's the next one."
 And they were saying, "Had you numbered your episodes like a programmer from number 0,
 then 52 really would be your first anniversary.
 Instead, you're one-off."
 Like, "Okay, yeah, that's true."
 Some of my podcasts do have an episode 0.
 The pilot is usually numbered 0.
 We never did a pilot on this one.
 So, it'd be sort of like celebrating your birthday the day before your birthday.
 Yeah, this is the last podcast of the first year and the next podcast will be the first
 podcast of the second year.
 So when is the anniversary now or next week?
 I don't know.
 I don't know.
 Happy birthday.
 Happy anniversary.
 That's not too sticky.
 Ha!
 You know, it reminds me of...
 Let's have it be on...
 Let's have it be on both days.
 Both.
 We'll celebrate both.
 Yeah.
 And the year 2000, remember there was that whole debate.
 Is this really the end of the millennium?
 Or, you know, well, it is the end, but is it the beginning of the new millennium?
 No, 2001 is the beginning of the new millennium long.
 Right.
 Because there was no year zero.
 Right.
 It just seems to me to be a semantic quibble.
 And I'm not going to get into the debate.
 But happy birthday.
 Happy anniversary.
 52 episodes.
 Almost 52 episodes done.
 Now, that's true.
 I have to say, we can't celebrate to the end of this episode.
 Well, that's a good point.
 We don't know what's going to happen.
 That's a good point.
 I do know.
 Well, I do know one thing.
 This would normally be our mod 4 question and answer episode.
 It would if we hadn't had such a frantic week of security events.
 We had the Black Hat and the Defcon conferences in Vegas.
 And so much was revealed that I want to talk about that I just, you know, we'll just push
 these questions to our next mod 4 and cover the phenomenal number of things.
 And many of them very, very worrisome.
 I wanted to let people know that I'll be talking about a lot of things that they're probably
 going to want to follow up on.
 I'll have links galore on our show notes this week.
 Basically, I'll be making up for all the many weeks where I just say, well, I had no links
 to share or, you know, a additional note.
 So, you know, check back next time.
 Well, this page, and, you know, Leo, you can copy them onto the Twitch site or refer people
 to the show notes page on GRC, whatever you want to do.
 But I want to let people know that there's going to be some things they're going to want
 to follow up on, don't drive their car off the road trying to write these down if they're
 listening to the podcast Friday morning and not wanting to lose this information.
 It'll all be on our show notes page.
 Many people sent me offers or links to what they thought were script-free CSS only menus
 for one reason or another.
 None of them worked for me.
 So I wanted to, in our show notes, is a link to the R&D menu that I developed over the
 course of those two months with the help of the great group of people in our news groups.
 And the menuing system that will shortly be appearing on GRC is robust to a level that
 nothing else we have found on the web is.
 It runs cross-platform on all Mac browsers, all Windows browsers, old browsers, new browsers.
 I mean, virtually, I mean, almost shoe leather browsers.
 I mean, how is that?
 Let me ask you, because that's difficult without doing logic text using JavaScript for
 the browser.
 How do you do that without saying, "Okay, if you're in an ed Explorer, do this?"
 Yeah.
 I mean, it really is difficult.
 For a while, we had a number of what are called CSS hacks, which take advantage of parsing
 errors that specific browsers have.
 And in fact...
 Of course, if they fix the browser, then they fix that error, you're not going to have...
 Well, I don't...
 I mean, exactly.
 It's not a...
 I mean, there were several places where we had them.
 I ended up working all of them out.
 So we ended up even virtually hack-free.
 There might still be one.
 Now I can't quite remember.
 There was a Safari behavior where I had to keep Safari from reading one CSS rule.
 But I've explicitly put the result of this work in the public domain.
 There's a banner at the top of the page of the main menu.css page saying where I'm placing
 this in the public domain, I also, not only for myself, but for anyone else, I commented
 it extensively.
 I mean, almost a line-by-line commentary of, you know, "What the heck this wacky thing
 is for?"
 I mean, it is a phenomenally complex piece of work, but it's the most robust menuing system
 I've seen, and it is script-free.
 Now we're going to be talking about scripting here in the rest of our erratic, because scripting
 comes up several times this week.
 And it turns out that, you know, I surf, as I've said often, with JavaScript all scripting
 disabled, because that's the right way to do it.
 And we'll be seeing a little bit more why here in a minute.
 But many menus are, as you said, require JavaScript in order to function.
 And, you know, so I'll go to sites where, you know, they don't work.
 It turns out that about 10% of internet users are now surfing without scripting enabled.
 So, 10% of all sites that depend upon scripting for their site navigation are not going to
 be functioning without someone having to lower their security enabling scripting in order
 to get the menus to work.
 And it's a constant annoyance for me, so I just couldn't have GRC, you know, need scripting
 enabled.
 And so, anyway, so the point is, there's a link, it's grc.com/menu2/invitro.html, which
 is just sort of the development menu that we ended up putting together.
 I say we, me, and all the people in the news group who are like pounding on it and testing
 it and changing the window size and just, you know, I mean, it ended up being a tremendously
 robust solution, which I just want to bring to people's attention, because there's a lot
 of interest in this notion of a script-free menu and, you know, I've got one and I'm giving
 it away to everybody.
 That's great.
 That's great.
 Well, I'm sure the community will be very interested in what you've done.
 And it will be borrowing heavily, liberally, from your solution.
 I hope so.
 It would be great.
 Yeah.
 And I wouldn't have to be lowering my security all the time in order to use other people's
 menus.
 Right.
 Right.
 Something else happened, well, a number of things.
 You know how, how, I don't know how much of an eBay user you are, Leo, but, you know,
 I stuff all the time.
 I just bought two things this week.
 Yep.
 I do, too.
 I realized I could get the old HP 11C calculators there, which I have now an inventory of just
 because I never want to be without them as the best calculator ever created.
 And you know, one of the things that anyone using eBay depends upon is that feedback,
 is you know, you want to know that the person you're buying something from is real.
 Right.
 And so you use the community's history with, with, with those sellers and the presumably
 the sellers look at the buyer's feedback to see, you know, okay, everybody is a good
 guy.
 Right.
 We'll get, get a load of this.
 The latest application of botnets, you know, that we've talked about often about Trojan
 programs, which are get installed in people's computers and then use their internet connections.
 It originally was just to attack other people.
 Then we had spam problems where, where, where bots or these Trojans were sending spam to
 people.
 The latest application of botnets is creating fake, high confidence eBay users.
 Oh, no.
 They're using botnets are being are being now used to create new fake eBay users.
 Then they all do one penny, one cent buy it now transactions with each other in order
 to qualify them for leaving feedback.
 They leave raving positive feedback to create high quality fake users that are then used
 by the botnet runners, the botnet owners, to, to create large dollar volume fake sales
 for something that looks very good.
 Then that of course allows users to get fooled into trusting someone who's going to take
 their money and never ship their product.
 Oh, my goodness.
 Is there any way to spot that?
 You can imagine that eBay knows about this and they'll be doing, you know, whatever they
 can, you know, maybe putting little captures on like all the pages, you know, captures,
 captures being those little funky things where you have to type in something that it says
 in order to prove that you're human.
 It's getting frustrating.
 They're captures everywhere.
 Now you can't put a comment on dig without a capture, but that's because of these automated
 solutions that are spamming and doing other things.
 Exactly.
 Oh, that's terrible.
 I am devastated because I do rely on those seller ratings and well, yeah, I mean, I've
 got a 100% perfect rating and I'm, you know, I'm proud of it.
 Well, I guess if you look at the, if you read the comments, it should become clear when
 they're automated and when they're not, there'll be a certain uniformity to them.
 They'll, I would imagine, yeah, I wanted to let everyone know, both from a standpoint
 of, you know, security now and also just, you know, eBay users, you need to be careful.
 Maybe, you know, maybe for something that's enough high value, have an interchange with
 the seller in order to get some confidence.
 I don't know.
 I mean, but anyway, buyer beware, speaking of buyers, Hamachi was bought.
 This stuns me.
 I never thought this would happen.
 Yeah, I'm, I'm not happy about it because I trusted and got such a good feeling from
 Alex Pankarov, the developer and, and guy behind Hamachi.
 And you know, it's, I hope they keep it free of anyway, it was bought by log me in, which
 has, you know, some related services.
 Get this Leo.
 When we first talked about Hamachi, they had about a quarter million users.
 Then they had, last December, after we talked about them and, you know, things really began
 to get going.
 They were at about three quarters of a million.
 Wow.
 In April, just what, five months ago, they were at two million.
 Oh, my goodness.
 And now they have three million users.
 Oh, so you can, you're responsible for a, for a total of two, two orders of magnitude
 growth.
 I think company.
 I think security now really did serve to put them on the map.
 And of course, we also talked about it on, on call for help up in Toronto.
 And, and I do think that word of mouth after it takes over once you get a certain critical
 mass.
 Of course.
 We helped them get to critical mass and then from then on, it was explosive and I'm glad
 Alex.
 Good.
 I'm glad he's going to make some money.
 I hope he's going to make some good money out of it.
 Well, I mean, it was a beautiful system.
 Well, conceived.
 I always appreciated.
 I mean, that like right from the get go, the, while it was still in beta, the UI was
 just beautiful.
 I mean, like really had someone paying attention to it.
 Well, and if you wanted to, I guess you could download Hamachi server right now and not worry
 about logmians involvement, just run it yourself.
 That's a very good point.
 You could set up your own private, your own private, your own private, right, Hamachi
 network.
 It was never open source, which always bothered me.
 And this is one of the reasons I'm not fond of close source.
 Had it been open source, even had he sold it, you could fork it and can, and there would
 always be a free and open version of it, regardless of what he did with it.
 Yeah.
 So from his point of view, it probably was smart to keep a close source.
 He made, I'm sure some money.
 But from the point of view, the user community, this is why I rarely will recommend a close
 source solution.
 Yep.
 Moving on.
 Okay.
 Well, got some bad news.
 Oh.
 Um, the, the bright guys down at EI in Elisa, VA, ho, the great security company, the big
 guy.
 And, and, and mean there, there, there, there are a bunch of really neat, young, you know,
 like white hat hackers.
 They found a bad problem in D-Link routers.
 Oh, I just bought one early, I know early, early this year, they informed D-Link toward
 the end of February and gave them half a year to deal with it.
 D-Link has done nothing.
 Okay.
 Now, and it's funny too, because I mean, the, the, the fundamental principles of security
 just keep applying.
 How many times have you heard me talk about not running services or servers, servers you
 don't need?
 And how many times have we said disable universal plug and play turns out there's a stack overflow,
 a traditional buffer overrun in, in a handful of D-Link routers.
 The D-I 524, the, the 604, the 624, the 784, the EBR 2310, the WBR 1310 and the WBR 2310.
 Again, we'll have, I have links on our show notes to EI's page, which talks about this.
 But reading from what EI said, they said a remote stack overflow exists in a range of
 wired and wireless D-Link routers.
 This vulnerability allows an attacker to execute privileged code on an affected device.
 When a specific request is sent to an affected device, a traditional stack overflow is triggered,
 allowing an attacker complete control of the router with the ability to execute code on
 the device, it is then possible to apply modified firmware and ultimate, and ultimately compromise
 the entire network.
 So you would use this attack to change the router's firmware and presumably put some
 code in there that would give you kind of an easy access to the network.
 Now if the machine's on the other end or secure, would that matter?
 Well, you, you, there's no way you would want the equivalent of somebody plugging their
 own connection into your inside your internal network.
 Right.
 I mean, you may, you may not, they may have to find another attack to get into your machines,
 but, but at least they have unfettered access and effectively turns off your firewall.
 Um, well, it does anything it wants to.
 Now we should say that this is a universal plug and play server and that's only facing
 the land side.
 So, so first, somebody would have to get access one way or another to, to the land interface.
 That is, you know, it's, so it would have to be code running in your machine that was
 talking to the router or if you were using unsecured Wi-Fi, then of course that gives
 them land side access.
 So an, so unsecured wireless would then probably be the most typical entry point.
 But if, if a, if anyone were like out war driving and you did not have web or WAP, web
 or WPA security on your, on your, on one of these D-Link routers, which after half a
 year, I mean, that's annoying.
 After half a year, this has not been fixed.
 They should fix that.
 You bet.
 Clearly, clearly there just isn't enough pressure on D-Link to do this or, or, or they would
 have.
 So, you know, maybe by us talking about it, we'll help to bring some pressure to, to D-Link
 and get this, this firmware updated.
 Well, this is how EI works.
 EI is really good.
 I mean, they do, you know, it's a balance between full exposure and, and keeping it
 quiet.
 So they give you six months, but if you don't do anything in six months, then the only way
 to put pressure on a company is to announce it publicly.
 Yep.
 You know, the, the idea and the companies, of course, all get upset.
 Well, you're telling hackers how to use it.
 Well, we told you first, and if you didn't patch it in six months, by now many hackers
 may in fact know, so the, the only thing we can do is to tell the world, well, that's
 a shame.
 Now it's fortunately not the router I bought and, but, so to lock my router down, it's
 first of all, it's not wireless.
 So that's a good step.
 Is it sufficient to turn off universal plug and play?
 Yes, because it is, it, it is an overflow in that server.
 So we've always told people to do that.
 Yes.
 We've always been telling people if unless you know you need universal plug and play, turn
 it off.
 It's a good thing not to have it on because it does allow anything that gets loose in your
 system to reconfigure your, your router behind your back.
 And now we know because of on these D link routers, because of a, of a buffer overrun
 in the universal plug and play server running in the router, it allows even a much greater
 degree of compromise.
 So this is once again, another reason to do a, do these lockdown things that we tell
 you to do with your router, including turning off you PNP speaking of which we all know
 what a fan I am of client side scripting, I've got my tongue in my cheek, I'm fighting
 it.
 Yes.
 I mean, I, you know, client side scripting, you know, in email, in web browser, anything
 is bad.
 You know, and people say, Oh, but it's so nice.
 It's like, yes.
 And it's bad.
 Now I've always agreed with you when it comes to active script because active script, which
 is the windows technology really has no sandboxing at all, but surely we're safe with JavaScript.
 No, he said setting you up.
 What?
 Thank you, Leo.
 What has been figured out by some guys at a security company, SPI dynamics is how standard
 JavaScript with no bugs, no exploits, no buffer of runs over runs, no mistakes at all can
 be used to port scan your internal network, identify devices, take them over, reprogram
 them and send any information home.
 So by going to a website running JavaScript, they could do that to my internal network.
 Yes.
 And there's a proof of there's a proof of concept online right now that demonstrates basically
 you go to their page, their JavaScript will scan your internal network and any site you
 went to that was that was using scripting and you can bet it's not going to take long
 before this this I mean, this is now out in the wild.
 This was talked about at the black hat conference last week.
 And so all the bad guys know about this now.
 So should I turn off JavaScript?
 Well, yes.
 I mean, Leo.
 What's Steve?
 I've been saying it's bad.
 That's Steve.
 This is what I'm this is what I'm talking about.
 None of my sites work with that.
 I mean, it just works with that job.
 Well, mine does.
 Why?
 Because it's possible.
 I mean, okay, but with all due respect, your site is does not do all that much.
 It does a jump up and down and dance around.
 I know it doesn't do a lot of things.
 Okay, let me just let me just don't set session cookies or anything, right?
 No, I have I'm just beginning to use cookies because that's another thing I wanted.
 But the said session cookies don't don't you need JavaScript to do that or some scripting?
 No, you could do server side.
 Yeah.
 Well, yeah.
 Yeah.
 I mean, cookies have traditional being server side.
 Okay.
 So, so, okay.
 SBI dynamic says, and I've got I've got a lot of JavaScript.
 I've got link.
 I've got links to this stuff says, imagine visiting a blog on a social site like myspace.com
 or checking your email on a portal like Yahoo's web mail.
 While you're reading the web page, JavaScript code is downloaded and executed by your web
 browser.
 I mean, we all know that's the way these things work.
 In this case, it scans your entire home network, detects and determines your linksys router
 model number, and then sends commands to the router to turn on wireless networking and
 turn off all encryption.
 Now imagine that this happens to a million people across the United States in less than
 24 hours.
 This scenario is no longer one of fiction.
 Well it doesn't break to a TV too much.
 It only thing it breaks by turning off JavaScript is my is our flash player.
 So they say, yes, yes, they say getting inside the internet, the intranet, the scanner is
 written in JavaScript, which can be embedded into an any HTML page, simply viewing the
 page downloads the JavaScript along with the HTML to the user's browser, automatically
 executing the code once loaded.
 It does not matter if the user is sitting in a coffee shop using a wireless hotspot or
 inside an office building using a corporate network.
 If a user can browse the web, he or she can visit a page that includes the scanner and
 have his or her network, whether internal or external, be scanned and attacked.
 Well, and using MySpace as an example is a very good example because as we know that
 WMF flaw was propagated to a million computers on MySpace, just a few weeks ago, a lot of
 unsophisticated users on MySpace.
 Anyway, these guys go on to explain how the equivalent of a ping can be created with JavaScript
 to ping all the IPs within a range.
 We know that JavaScript is able to determine the user's IP because we've talked in the
 past about how some of those sites scare people by saying we know the private IP of
 your computer and we've said before, yeah, okay, big deal, that doesn't do anything.
 But in this case, it tells the scanner what kind of network you're on and what range
 of IPs to scan for other machines.
 And they go on to show how this thing can find web servers and then send requests to
 web servers which may be less secure on the internet than they are from the outside on
 the internet where they're worried about bad guys getting in.
 And I mean, basically, do anything this thing wants to inside your network.
 So I mean, Leo, the problem is you are going to untrusted sites and running script that
 they provide.
 It's just a bad idea.
 I mean, it's unfortunate that it's bad.
 But like so many things that we want to do, they're not secure.
 And here is a perfect example now, finally, of what, you know, valid, non-buggy JavaScript
 can do on your machine whenever you visit a website that chooses to do this for whatever
 purpose.
 Well, all I can say is we're going to turn off JavaScript on Twitter and figure out a
 way to make it work without JavaScript.
 There are a lot of things that use JavaScript, unfortunately, including ad banners, I mean,
 a lot of the net relies on JavaScript.
 Well, you know, Leo, we trust you.
 I have put you in my trusted list on IE.
 And so when I go to Twitter, everything jumps around and dances the way you want it to.
 There's not that much time.
 So what I would say is you don't have to turn it off and not use it.
 Choose safe sites.
 You don't have to turn it off and not use it.
 Right.
 Well, no, like from your standpoint, as a webmaster, what you want to do is you want
 to focus more on the hopefully growing percentage of security savvy users who will visit your
 site with JavaScript at least initially disabled.
 So you know, I mean, and certainly I see sites more and more that say, you know, that stop
 me as I'm trying to enter saying this site requires JavaScript to be enabled.
 It's like, okay, well, and then I make a decision how much do I want to go any further.
 So so from a webmaster standpoint, I would just say, think, you know, disable JavaScript
 on your browser, use your own site, see how if it's okay.
 And if not, ask your web designers to do a better job for non scripted browsers who visit,
 because if I had my way, everyone would would have their scripting disabled by default until
 they chose to deliberately trust someone.
 Well, and that's certainly how I set up my browsers from now on, but a great many sites.
 You know, all the Ajax functionality that we've come to expect, that's all that matter of
 fact.
 The SPI guys specifically address Ajax and talk about how JavaScript because it's a component
 of Ajax, it is becoming, you know, more pervasive.
 And now we've seen it's not safe.
 Oh, this is devastating.
 Fortunately, most of my site, my sites make very little use of JavaScript, except for the
 admin interface, which is in an Ajax interface.
 So all you'll lose is the ability to play a flash player.
 But for instance, there are some things that are, well, I'll have to have to look at them.
 They're things like it.
 We won't launch iTunes when you click the iTunes button.
 So even a simple site like mine, JavaScript is fairly, very important.
 I know.
 Believe it or not, we got one more bad one.
 All right.
 It turns out that Intel Centrino Wi-Fi chip drivers have a bad bug in the frame processing,
 which, and this is one thing that also has come out just in the last week.
 Intel Centrino, you know, the widely deployed wireless chipset family that lots of laptops
 are using has the Windows drivers have a very bad bug that allows you to bypass Wi-Fi security.
 Now, this is the demo they did at Black Hat where they took over a MacBook.
 Is it the same flaw?
 No, that's a different flaw.
 Another flaw.
 Wonderful.
 Yes.
 Another flaw.
 This affects only Windows drivers.
 Now, Intel did ship new drivers for its Wi-Fi shortly after the Black Hat demo.
 I wonder if that fixed this flaw.
 Oh, yes.
 This flaw has been fixed.
 Okay.
 I'm wanting to tell people about it.
 I mean, unlike the JavaScript problem, which, you know, we're stuck with.
 We can't fix that.
 This is a bug.
 It has been patched.
 Again, links on our page take you to a downloadable tester that will tell you what
 version of your centrino you have and which ones are vulnerable.
 And then Intel has a patch.
 Unfortunately, the patch is as huge as 130 megs to download this, although you don't
 have to install all that, but you do have to download that blob.
 And then, in fact, on one of my tablets, I had a buggy driver in one of my tablets on
 my little libretto.
 It doesn't use centrino, so I was fine there.
 But anybody who's got like that centrino label on the back of their, or maybe the underside
 of their laptop ought to take a look at this because it is the thing that's scary about
 it is that no encryption and protection saves you.
 This is an error in the frame in the packet processing, the frame processing before we
 get to encryption and security and decryption.
 So potentially, somebody sending this specially malformed packet could execute code.
 Oh, and the code executed is at the privilege level of the driver, which, of course, is
 the kernel.
 It's always ring zero.
 That's how exactly so full kernel privileges.
 Wow.
 So anybody using centrino wants to get this stuff from our show notes and get themselves
 patched immediately.
 And there is, of course, this larger issue, which was demonstrated black hat with almost
 all.
 They said Wi-Fi drivers, similar muffler of a flow, I expect, although they did not tell
 the world how the exploit worked, but they attacked a Mac Mac book.
 Of course, they had to use a third party Wi-Fi card to do it, which nobody would do since
 you already have one, but they said, and we used a Mac book because Mac users are so smug.
 We just wanted to show them they have problems now, but it is a problem on Windows machines
 just as much.
 So this, there are holes in these drivers, but it's a really scary thing when you have
 whole security flaws in a driver.
 Well, yes, and especially one on Wi-Fi because of the wireless problem and the opportunity
 to do war driving and one which affects you independent of web or WPA encryption.
 I mean, there is no protection for this other than patching the driver immediately.
 And because it's wireless inherently, I mean, people have talked about the possibility of
 a wireless worm because a worm could jump from one wireless notebook to another like
 in an airport or in a coffee shop or even in a corporation where a lot of people were
 using internal Wi-Fi hotspots.
 I have to say, it sure sounds like the hackers are winning today.
 It's been a busy week.
 This is bad.
 Do you have any good news at all?
 I have a piece of really neat good news.
 Thank you.
 Can you end with that?
 Yes, and as a matter of fact, it is the last one of my lengthy list of Erata for the week.
 I don't want to end on such a scary note here.
 There's a group called the Stop Bad Wear Coalition that is developing a list, a comprehensive
 list of sites that are known to have malware content.
 Google has just started working with them.
 Wonderful.
 And it's really cool.
 Will alert anyone who clicks on a link, which is going to a site which is known or believed
 to have some sort of spyware, malware, or just sort of generic badware, it'll instead
 take the user to the Stop Bad Wear Coalition page.
 Fantastic.
 Just to give them a warning that you should know that there's been some concerns raised
 about the site.
 If you're about to visit, do you want to keep going?
 Holy cow.
 It's very cool.
 And get this Leo.
 It turns out that in a study they did a few months ago prior to launching this, 10% of
 search results are of sites that have this collision of known badware.
 So one out of 10 links that Google returns or any other search engine is returning.
 Of course, this is a great advantage for Google, and the Stop Bad Wear Coalition guys are first
 working with Google.
 It's not an exclusive relationship, so you can imagine that all the other search engines
 are going to want to jump on this because, I mean, basically, it's a cool service for
 protecting users from going to sites that have known problems.
 So it's a huge burden, and a lot of power in the hands of Stop Bad Wear, I should point
 out that Stop Bad Wear is a coalition, Google, Lenovo, and Sun Microsystems are partners.
 I think it's kind of a newer group that was started with this in mind.
 Yes, and only recently.
 Yeah, in conjunction with Harvard's Berkman Center.
 And Oxford University is Oxford in an institute.
 So these are good people, consumer reports, is involved as well.
 So I think that this is good.
 There is a lot of power now that this group has, because--
 Well, imagine being incorrectly listed.
 It would be, you know, devastating.
 Oh, my goodness.
 So it's important that they really be above suspicion in any way, and that they be absolutely
 objective, and apparently they're so, I mean, I'm impressed with what they've done.
 So and thank you, Google, for doing this.
 It's a risky thing for Google to do.
 I mean, it exposes them.
 But it's a next step.
 I mean, ultimately, it's the kind of thing where it's like, yeah, I wish I had thought
 of it.
 But it's a risky thing to do, because you're going to get sued.
 Yep.
 I mean, let's face it, Google is being sued all the time anyway, because people are pissed
 off that they're not ranked where they think they should be in Google's engine.
 So thank you, Google, for taking the hit for all of us on this one.
 It's an important thing to do.
 I bet you, you said other search engines should do this.
 They may be forced to just because Google's doing it, it'll be one more reason for everybody
 to use Google.
 But I bet you, there's a lot of resistance among the management of these search engine
 companies saying, excuse me, we don't want to, we don't want to go out on a limb like
 that.
 Yeah.
 I mean, it's just, it's a, who would not, I mean, if you, if you, if you were, it didn't
 have any other reason to use Google, like liking it, if you were using other search engines,
 now you could, yeah, I was going to say, who wouldn't prefer that just to have that extra
 layer of protection.
 So everyone, before long, it'll just be the way it's done.
 And as it should be.
 Another step forward.
 Exactly.
 Well, I'm glad you ended on a happy note.
 Actually, I have one more story to add that really isn't security.
 It's more about privacy, but it just raises the issue of search engines and how much they
 know.
 I don't know if you saw the New York Times article, I think it was today about America
 Online.
 You may remember last week, America Online admitted and later apologized.
 The screw up.
 Now, that they gave a lot of information about searching.
 They published it.
 What did they do?
 They gave it out or they, I can't remember.
 I didn't follow it closely either.
 I just knew that they were, that they were embarrassed and they were apologizing for,
 for some sort of information disclosure.
 They collected, well, they're made a list of 20 million web search queries on AOL.
 And now you might say, as AOL did, well, they're anonymous.
 They're not giving out personal information where, where this database is just what people
 search for.
 We, we numbered the users so no one knows who it is.
 Well, an intrepid reporter for the New York Times looked at the information and you know,
 it's not as anonymous as you might think.
 He actually tracked down number 4417749, mainly because her searches as most of our searches
 would, I think, gave a lot of information about who she is.
 She was searching for landscapers in her hometown and searching for people with a last
 name that was similar to hers.
 And I mean, it was enough information that this reporter was actually able to talk to
 her.
 Wow.
 So that's a terrifying thought.
 Would you like all the things you searched for in the last year to be published on the
 internet?
 No.
 And I mean, you, you could, you could argue that it would be easy for people to also to
 like misinterpret what we're searching for.
 I mean, I'm, after all the revelations this year about the NSA, you know, watching us,
 I'm, and then if there was something just the other day, I was, it was something to
 do with a, with a suspicious, you know, anti-terrorism sort of website thing.
 And I just thought, boy, I mean, it's kind of creepy to think that, that what we do on
 the net may be watched and somebody may be interpreting our intentions, which of course,
 you know, that's the leap that they have to make is understanding why it is that a person
 is going there.
 Yeah.
 Well, did pull the search data off of its site over the weekend, apologize for the release.
 They saying it was an unauthorized move by a team who actually would just wanted to benefit
 the academic community.
 You know, here's a lot of information that maybe you can, you can get some value out
 of.
 They did it, I think they did it in the best intentions, but it just points up that, you
 know, there is a, you don't need somebody's name to know a lot about them.
 Well, and you know, that, that's really, it's funny you say that because one of my arguments
 against the whole third party cookie thing is people, they, they, the aggregators are
 saying, oh no, this is anonymous.
 It's like, it starts out being anonymous, but when you acquire enough information, you
 look at your end, and you're, and that's the whole point of, of aggregating data.
 You aggregate all this and you end up with something that can sometimes not be so anonymous.
 I'll put a link along with your links to this New York Times article.
 It's, it's quite, quite amazing.
 Well now that we've scared the pants off of everybody and maybe you have a little bit
 with the, the Google information, I think it's time we adjourned this edition of security
 now, but we'll be back next week.
 Do you want to pick up the virtualization topic?
 Yes, that's what we're going to do.
 I'm going to talk about sort of the granddaddy of, of commercial companies, VMware, which
 I've actually been using for many years.
 And so we're going to kind of cover what they offer and their products and, and give people
 some introduction to that.
 And that'll be our next step in discussing virtual machine stuff.
 I can't wait.
 Of course, I want to thank the folks at Astaro for providing the, the, the wherewithal to
 continue this podcast, it's their support really that encourages me so much with security
 now because, you know, we could go on doing this for a long time out of our own pocket,
 but the fact that somebody, a company like Astaro has come along and said, you know,
 it's worthwhile.
 We want to help support it.
 It just really, it makes me feel good.
 They are the makers of the Astaro security gateway.
 If you're small or medium business network needs superior protection from spam, from
 viruses from hackers, as well as complete VPN capabilities, intrusion protection, content
 filtering and an industrial strength firewall, all in an easy to use, high performance appliance,
 contact Astaro www dot A S T A R O dot com or call eight, seven, seven.
 The number four, a star, oh, you can schedule a free trial of the Astaro security gateway
 appliance in your business.
 And of course, as always, non commercial users, you and me can download the software version
 of ASG for home use, absolutely free.
 That's also at A S T A R O dot com and for a low press, I think it's 79 euros a year.
 You can add very strong anti virus, anti spam and other protections to it that's automatically
 updated.
 It really is a great solution.
 If you've got an old box line around that you can put Linux and a star on.
 This is a really neat thing to do.
 A S T A R O dot com.
 Of course, security now is provided by Steve as a as a pro bono benefit to the community.
 But if you'd like to benefit him back, I just talked to somebody.
 It's so funny this week who said, yeah, I bought a copy of spin right.
 I didn't need it.
 I just wanted to give something back to Steve.
 You don't have to buy it if you don't need it.
 But if you need file maintenance and recovery, I shouldn't speak for you, Steve.
 But I think I think you would agree with me.
 Don't buy it if you don't need it.
 But if you have a hard drive, you might want it.
 Spin right is the absolute best in file recovery and disk maintenance.
 It's available at grc.com.
 And if you want to read some testimonials, spin right S P I N R I T E dot info.
 That's a great answer.
 And you're rightly, I mean, I, I would never ask anyone to spend $89.
 You don't need donations.
 Right.
 My whole goal here is just to plant the seed.
 I mean, sooner or later, pretty much everybody who uses a PC over a long period has some sort
 of a disk crash.
 I mean, you know, a physical problem that they turn their machine on and it says, you know,
 no operating system found.
 Just like, I mean, or a question because you, what happens with spin right is you make
 a boot CD or a boot floppy that'll run spin right because you run it from, from DOS, basically.
 Correct.
 Now that Mackintosh runs on Intel, can I use it on my Mac machine on an Intel?
 You know, we're getting questions about that.
 And I don't know yet.
 You have a Mac Intel.
 Why don't you try it?
 Well, you know, I do, but I've, I'm liking the Mac.
 I'm like, I'm liking the Mac so much that, that, that first I, first I cut the hard drive
 in half using Apple's boot camp.
 Right.
 So it was a half Mac and half Windows and I got Windows installed and set up and it all
 worked really well.
 It's like, okay, cool.
 Now I've got, you know, Windows on this really nice Mac hardware, then I was using the Mac
 for a while and I was thinking, I'm kind of liking this Mac side.
 So I, I wiped out the Windows side and I, I use boot camp again to repartition it.
 And this I'm only gave Windows 10 gig out of my total of 80 and, and now it's gone completely.
 Oh, no, don't tell this.
 Well, because one of the tools we'll be talking about is Parallels, which is a virtual, it's
 a virtual machine technology for the Mac, which on an Intel machine runs Windows at full speed
 in a window.
 I love it.
 Well, it's a, it's a, it's a cool solution because, for example, I've got some friends
 that I, I would like to have always had on a Mac, except they like need one particular
 application.
 I, I've got a really great realtor friend and she has to have her did this one application
 for her multiple, it is, it's her multiple listing thing and it only runs under Windows.
 So this is like a perfect solution for her.
 So it's not that it's not that it won't check the disk because it's file system independent,
 right?
 Well, yes, because it's, it's about the physical sectors.
 It's a spin right actually runs underneath the level of the file system dealing with the,
 the actual recording of data on the disk and doesn't care what the data is that it's reading.
 It works to recover it and, and, and also to remove bad sectors from use, swapping them
 out with spares that the drives always have.
 So it would work on Linux.
 It would work on a Mac.
 The issue really is booty.
 People run it.
 People run it on their teavos.
 Oh, yeah.
 Of course.
 It'd be great for that.
 Yeah.
 They fix it.
 It's been right, it'll fix teavo drives that are in trouble.
 So, so in theory, however, it is down at the bare metal.
 I wrote it, of course, all in assembly language and it's, you know, it was, there's no bio.
 There's no traditional bios on a Mac.
 Oh, then you're right.
 Yeah.
 That's a good word.
 It's not going to bring all of the stuff around it still does.
 It's expect to see a PC.
 So you're, you're correct.
 Yeah.
 But I have a feeling gang with Steve's new love that it may be some day for Mac users
 too.
 They'll be a, they'll be a.
 Well, and Mac people do you spin right by pulling the drive out and sticking it over
 on a PC.
 So that would work fine then.
 And it does.
 And people have, people have done it a lot.
 Okay.
 That's good to know.
 GRC.com.
 That's also where you'll find the show notes, the 16 kilobit version of this show for the
 band with impaired and Elaine's fantastic transcriptions for those who'd like to read
 their security now or many do read along with Steve.
 I'm seeing notes from people who are, who are using Google to find the transcripts,
 which then lead them into the podcast.
 Interesting.
 And so we're, we're acquiring people who are doing Google searches for things.
 And they, they run across the transcripts.
 And so it's really nice cause, cause Elaine's transcripts mean that, that security now is
 searchable.
 Right.
 Well, and I, I will add that it is going to be searchable in another way because we've
 done a deal with pod zinger, which is a BBN company.
 And they do amazing work in, in voice to text.
 And they are scanning now all of the Twit.TV network programs, creating transcriptions, not
 as good as Elaine's.
 They're, they're computer transcriptions, but it's good enough for searches.
 And as we're soon to implement as the, a new search box that we already have a text search
 box on the Twit.TV, but we'll have a text and audio search box that will allow you to
 search any of the podcasts.
 And this will be great.
 So if you want to know more about netstat, you can go and type netstat and not only will
 it take you to the podcast where Steve talked about netstat, it'll take you, it'll queue
 it up to that portion of the podcast.
 Oh, very nice.
 So there's a little player and you're able to do that without any scripting.
 That's amazing.
 Yeah, we'll see about that.
 I don't know.
 You might not work with that.
 I think as a goal for all websites and certainly for, for mine, eliminating all scripting is
 a, you know, all client side scripting is a, is, well, or, or, or a reasonable compromise,
 I think is to, is to minimize the, the impact from not scripting.
 You know, so, so as a, I think a responsible webmaster should just turn scripting off and,
 you know, see if the site is still usable.
 Maybe not all the bells and whistles are still working, but at least, you know, you could,
 you could get around.
 Well, of course I did do that.
 The minute you told me here earlier in the podcast, and as I mentioned, the only thing
 that seems not to work is the flash based player.
 I guess it uses a little, in fact, I know it uses a little JavaScript to pull up a player
 but we can change that.
 Right.
 That's, that's, that's just an easy thing to change.
 The search still works, by the way.
 So, right.
 For people who are Firefox users, there's a very nice Firefox plugin called NoScript.
 And NoScript does exactly what I recommend doing.
 And that is, it allows you to run by default with scripting disabled.
 And then white list sites that you trust, you know, Google, Amazon and so forth.
 So you get, you get the best of both worlds.
 You get scripting, like amtwit.tv, of course.
 You get scripting for any sites you visit, it automatically turns it on on the fly in
 the same way that Internet Explorer uses its zones in order to give you differing levels
 of security depending upon what, what, whether it's, it's a default Internet site or one
 that you have explicitly trusted.
 So it's called NoScript for Firefox.
 I was almost gave a point to, to, to explore and said this is a reason to use Explorer because
 of that capability.
 I'm glad to know about NoScript.
 That's good.
 Yep.
 Yeah.
 All right.
 We will say goodbye to you now.
 We'll be back next week talking about virtualization and specifically VMware.
 Remember twit.tv is a place to find not only this podcast, but a great many others.
 We're actually going to be up to a dozen podcasts soon on all topics, technology oriented.
 And if you like.
 Oh my God, you must be busy Leo.
 You know, I've decided to really make this my full time job.
 I, I, I kind of was on the fence for a while, but it's working.
 Now that we're getting advertising, we're getting the donations have been very strong.
 And by the way, the fact that we have advertising doesn't mean stop donating.
 I really appreciate those donations.
 The reason is we use the donations to support infrastructure, which includes, of course,
 server expenses, equipment expenses, rent, that kind of thing.
 And the, and the advertising money goes to the hosts, you know, to pay for them because
 they're everybody, including Steve, we're doing it voluntarily right now.
 And me.
 But I, you know, it's exciting.
 I think things are really going well.
 And, and I, I really think there's a, an interest in this kind of information.
 I, I know if security now didn't exist, I would be missing a lot of really important
 information.
 So I'm very grateful to you, Steve, for doing this for a year for actually you're starting
 to get a little money now that we have advertising.
 Well, and the audience seems to be holding.
 I mean, we're, we're growing, we're growing, baby.
 Or is that with the last number showed?
 Yeah.
 And the numbers, some of the strongest numbers we've had yet.
 Very nice.
 So I'm very encouraged.
 People do like what we're doing.
 And we appreciate it.
 We're glad you listened.
 And we hope you'll be back next Thursday for another exciting, thrilling, gripping and
 let's hope not so depressing episode of security now.
 Thanks, Steve.
 Thanks a lot.
 Security now.
