 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by AOL Radio at AOL.com/podcasting.
 [Music]
 Security Now is brought to you by
 Astarro, makers of the Astarro Security Gateway
 On the web at www.astarro.com
 [Music]
 Once again, I am on a boat.
 [Laughs]
 Last time we did this, I got a number of messages saying,
 "Wow, how do you skype from a boat?"
 Well, we don't.
 We record these ahead of time, that's all.
 Steve Gibson to work around our schedule.
 Actually, I think I'm not on a boat.
 I think I might be in Canada.
 I don't know.
 All I know is I'm not here right now.
 But Steve is, and we are here to talk tech.
 And security in particular.
 And a lot of great response to last week's episode of virtualization.
 Do we have another?
 You said we would do a little more on that.
 Oh, yeah.
 We have a few more episodes.
 I do want to mention that I got some great feedback from people
 who have installed and are using no script.
 You know, we talked about it.
 Oh, I installed it, yes.
 Yeah, we talked about the serious problems of JavaScript.
 And of course, I'm anti-scripting in general,
 because I think it's just fundamentally a bad idea
 to let websites you visit run code in your machine.
 And people are like, "Oh, yeah, there's that Gibson."
 You know, he's all freaked out about, you know,
 this stuff that's not a problem.
 But then these researchers came up with a way of JavaScript
 scanning people's internal networks,
 which caught a lot of people's attention.
 I mean, it's not like the end of the world,
 but it further demonstrates that just as a concept,
 I mean, philosophically, having scripting enabled
 is not as secure as not having it enabled.
 So, you know, there's a way of configuring IE that we've talked about
 in an explorer where it automatically switches its security
 based on whether the site you're going to is in your trusted zone
 or not.
 And similarly, no script for Firefox is an add-on
 that provides similar functionality.
 And I got a bunch of feedback from people who are using it
 and just feel good to know that their scripting is off
 unless they choose to turn it on.
 Well, I installed it, but somebody's site's broke.
 I just turned it back on.
 Yeah, it's kind of a tough one.
 And a number of people pointed out to me,
 including Randall Schwartz, who is our resident naysayer,
 but a security expert, and certainly somebody I trust,
 that the exploit is in two hazardous,
 as long as you've renamed, you know,
 change the password in your router.
 In other words, if you've pursued the kind of security recommendations
 you make all the time, you're not too vulnerable.
 Right.
 So I guess as always with security, it's a balance between...
 Well, but remember, he's responding to this specific instance,
 which wasn't known a few weeks ago.
 So what else is there?
 I mean, so what I'm saying is just, you know,
 there are things that are clear policies that regard security.
 I mean, for example, it used to be that people had their networks
 wide open, and they closed ports when there were problems.
 Okay, bad idea.
 Instead, have your system closed and open ports that you need.
 So like, you know, there was that inversion.
 And similarly, we know, even if you think you have a server,
 a service which is receiving packets that's safe, you know,
 it's just, it's not good to have it running if you don't need it.
 And of course, that lesson we learned with the universal plug-and-play
 exploit that was just uncovered a few weeks ago at...
 Well, actually, it was originally uncovered back in February by the E.I. guys.
 Again, another perfect example of where running with a secure policy
 just closes you down in general and prevents unknown problems from occurring.
 So a similar policy is scripting is bad.
 I mean, yes, I know.
 It's virtually necessary these days, but it's from a security standpoint,
 as opposed to a convenience and features standpoint, which I understand
 it provides, you know, it's bad.
 I'm turning it back on.
 Hey, at least it exists as an option.
 And it's a really good option, I have to say.
 It works very well.
 But you are a Mac guy, Leo.
 And so in general, you're, you know, the attack target size for the Mac
 is substantially smaller than it is for a Windows-based, you know, IE system.
 And of course, Firefox is substantially more secure than IE just based on the past.
 And with security, that's what we have to go on.
 You cannot declare...
 Oh, and in fact, this is like a perfect example of that in this episode.
 But you cannot declare that something is secure.
 History needs to prove its security.
 So it's that positive versus negative.
 You're absolutely right.
 And one last thing is we mentioned the sale of Hamachi to log me in.
 I had some dialogue with Alex Pankratov, the father of Hamachi, who you remember,
 you know, we contacted and talked to back when we discovered Hamachi because
 several people asked about that Hamachi server we referred to.
 And I was impressed, Leo, that you remembered there was such a thing
 because I hadn't heard of it or remembered about it for a long time.
 But the idea was that when we were originally learning about Hamachi,
 the idea was that there would be this server that people could run themselves
 to like set up their own Hamachi network and not use Alex's central servers
 to do all of the liaison between the Hamachi agents.
 So a couple of people wrote in saying, "Hey, you know,
 if Hamachi's going to go into unknown limbo condition
 with the sale of log me in, I mean, you know, like,
 we never know what's going to happen when one of these things happens.
 It's like how the cis internal site you couldn't get to for a few days
 when the announcement of their purchase by Microsoft was made
 because everyone was frantically sucking down all the cool utilities
 that Mark had written before, you know, maybe they would go away.
 So anyway, what Alex explained was, first of all,
 he really vetted the log me in people carefully.
 I mean, his same concern for security and that the people there
 understand like the rights of users and privacy rights and all that.
 He's really comfortable with them as the new parent for Hamachi.
 So he wanted to make that clear.
 And he said, however, that the server project never got off the ground.
 Oh, so I was mistaken in pointing people that way.
 Well, no, I mean, I'd forgotten about it completely.
 So I was impressed that you even remembered.
 But it was at best in at sort of at alpha level development.
 And it never would have been, he explained a software only offering
 due to concerns about piracy.
 I mean, it's just, you know, Hamachi is so popular.
 If he had released a, you know, some service or Hamachi server software,
 it would be, you know, all over the world in no time.
 So it would have always been tied to a to some sort of hardware platform
 so that, you know, you had to buy a Hamachi appliance
 from Alex and company in order to set up your own network
 as opposed to just being something that you could download.
 So anyway, the server, while not dead, it really, it never existed.
 And he did try to explain the benefits of it to the log me and folks.
 And, you know, they now have it.
 So whatever it is that's Hamachi is now the property of log me in.
 But, you know, there is at this point no alternative for people other than to,
 you know, follow Hamachi over to log me in with Alex's assurances that, I mean,
 he really feels as good about them as he could.
 Oh, and by the way, and I was saying, wow, Alex, three million users?
 He says, well, that's old news.
 Actually, we're more like 3.9.
 Wow.
 Wow.
 And he ought to be sending you a gift.
 Some kind.
 Well, he thanked us again for discovering them early and really putting them on the map.
 You know, I guess his, I think his wife was giving him a hard time for months,
 you know, over the title of our podcast, Hamachi Rocks.
 So, yeah.
 Well, I just, again, and I'm just going to reiterate, and I'll stop,
 but that just was why I like open source solutions.
 I wish there were an open source solution as easy to use as Hamachi.
 That's the thing is the open VPN is out there, but it's, as we all know,
 it's a difficult nightmare to get going.
 And I'll say again that I've, you know, it's funny, my prototype menu.
 Remember we talked last week about the, the, the script-free CSS only menu
 that I spent almost two months developing.
 It's really taken off Leo.
 A thousand people a day are, are going to that prototype menu page.
 And I've had people saying, well, but it doesn't, it doesn't validate.
 So it's like, okay, fine.
 So I went over and it was, I added my standard GRC footer stuff,
 which has all kinds of old HTML in it that just, you know, it generated 112 HTML validation errors.
 It's like, okay, I'm just going to get rid of that.
 So I took that off and then I fixed a couple little things and then now it does validate.
 So, but I mean, it's, people are really interested in the concept of a script-free, robust CSS only menu.
 And I mean, a thousand people a day are, are looking at that page and sucking out the CSS
 and adapting it to them to their own purposes.
 Yeah. Yeah.
 Yeah. That's really, that's, that's great.
 Good job.
 I think you may end up, nobody would expect this of Steve as, you know, a premier web developer,
 but you may end up being going down in the hall of fame as a CSS developer of all things.
 All right.
 So that's catching up on past episodes.
 Any other, any other past business?
 Nope. I think that brings us current.
 So what is our topic for today, my friend?
 Today?
 Blue pill.
 Oh, I'm excited.
 I'm excited.
 This is a very interesting, for a number of reasons it's interesting.
 There's a red pill and there's a blue pill.
 Yeah.
 And also it's interesting because it's one of the few women in this field.
 Yep.
 Joanna Rutauska is, she's been working with root kit technology for years and has published
 a bunch of papers about, you know, root kidding, modern OS's, means of detecting, means of exploit.
 No, I mean, she's like, she's a pure security researcher in, you know, in the best sense
 of the word because she's, she's working to, to develop the, the concepts of root kits
 in, in a, in a context of, you know, what we're doing now and publishing her results.
 The thing that made so much noise recently was about two months ago, she, she published
 a paper explaining blue pill and, I mean, and then, and then on two conferences, SciScan,
 and then of course the recent Black Cat Conference, she gave presentations where she demonstrated
 this.
 We're talking about it because it is right in our virtual machine series that we're doing.
 It's about virtual machine technology and what, what really raised eyebrows was her claim
 that it was undetectable.
 And, and that's really the thing that sets it off from prior root kit stuff, you know,
 that we, we talked about root kits extensively early in security now in, in our series.
 And in fact, I would encourage anybody who hasn't read our early treatment of root kits
 to, to, you know, grab those past episodes and, and, and take a listen to them because there
 was, you know, a lot of great stuff there and I don't want to like completely restate everything
 that was said, but I do want to talk about, you know, what it is that blue pill is and
 how it's different from prior root kits because it's, it's fundamentally different.
 And in fact, Joanna has been like responding to people ever since her report because many
 people don't get what it is that she's done and what it is that she's saying.
 And so there's been lots of misconception, you know, slash dot, of course, went insane
 over this and I, you know, dig head threads and, you know, as, as you know, Leo, when
 I even said the word blue pill, he's like, oh, yeah, yeah.
 So, so okay.
 What happened is, and, and we touched on this already, I talked about how there is a clear
 evolution in what's happening with virtual machine technology.
 One of the things that's happening is that our next generation hardware platforms are
 incorporating much more explicit support for virtualization, which is, which is something
 that, for example, we talked about VMware last week, VMware, a lot of their technology
 is about working around the lack of support, I mean, the lack of like robust support for
 virtualization and making their VMware product offerings work anyway.
 Well, what, what AMD has done, and this is the platform on which Joanna's blue pill technology
 operates, AMD has something called their SVM Pacifica virtualization technology.
 That's part of the Athlon 64 and the Turion 64 chips.
 It's, it's essentially an extension of the X64 architecture that AMD, it's like a proprietary
 extension that AMD has added, which, which adds much deeper support for virtualization.
 Now Intel is coming along, they've had their Vanderpool chip as, as sort of their, their
 next generation moving forward.
 Now it's been renamed VT.
 So Intel's next generation chips will have this so-called VT technology, which is their
 equivalent.
 In both cases, this stuff allows software to, to do a much, essentially a much better job
 of, of virtualizing the environment.
 Now what Joanna realized and then wrote proof of concept code for, was that an OS running
 on this next generation hardware.
 So first of all, no one with 32 bit code, with 32 bit platform hardware, no, no, nobody
 with 32 bit AMD or Intel hardware has anything to worry about.
 I mean, it just, this is all next generation hardware platform requirement.
 But any operating system, Joanna implemented hers on the current beta, I think it was
 beta three of Vista, you know, Microsoft's next generation machine that's going to keep
 us so busy in the future.
 Any operating system running on top of this hardware has a problem that, that it's, in
 that it's possible for client software to assume the role of a so-called hypervisor.
 Hypervisor is one of the new jargons that has been, been adopted, sort of to, to explain
 this notion of something running even above a supervisory level.
 So, so in general, the operating system is called the supervisor, since it supervises
 the operation of the various client programs that are running within it.
 So hypervisor is meant to imply something above the level of the operating system.
 And we've sort of touched on that when we've talked about, for example, VMware's ESX solution,
 where you run it and then you install operating systems in it.
 So it's a hypervisor running above the level, or below the level, depending on which way
 you draw your diagram, of the regular supervisory operating systems.
 Well, it turns out that the code Joanna wrote, the first thing that I just made me grin,
 is that it completely bypassed, I mean, just didn't even care about Microsoft's Vista,
 new kernel protection stuff.
 Microsoft is going to great measures to make Vista more secure.
 We know, because we understand security, that it's going to take them a while to get the
 bugs out of all that.
 Well, one of the things that Vista requires by default is that all drivers be signed.
 This driver signing requirement of Vista is very controversial, because it means that
 you need to have a digital signature, and digital signatures are not free.
 So people are complaining that it's open source hostel, it's free software hostel, and so
 forth.
 So I'm just saying, well, yeah, sorry, but you want security or not?
 So anyway, so the so if you want open source right for an open source operating system
 anyway.
 Exactly.
 And so what Joanna demonstrated was that you leveraging the hardware platform, and this
 this Pacifica virtualization technology, she could with Vista's with all of Vista's security
 up and running, just cut right through it, and and slip essentially, if this is sort
 of a super root kit, she could slip her root kit into the system, and it was undetectable.
 And undetectableness was the real thesis behind what she was talking about, because, and now
 we'll talk a little bit about the root kit and the normal root kit technology and why
 it's detectable.
 She makes the point in her paper, and this is the whole point of what she did, that root
 kits have traditionally relied on some sort of cluge or hack of some sort, they're hacking
 the kernel.
 For example, if a root kit wants to hide itself so that it just cannot be seen by, by, you
 know, anyone looking for malicious code running in the machine, and that's the whole point
 of a root kit, most operating systems, if not all, will somewhere they'll have a list
 of running processes.
 And so, and a list is a programming term, meaning, and it's also called a linked list,
 meaning that there'll be a structure that manages and represents a process which will
 contain, in it, a pointer to the next structure for the next process, which will contain a
 pointer to the next structure for the next process.
 And so, it's a series of these pointers form links that link this list together.
 So, so for example, when we run task manager in Windows, or you run top in Unix, what, what
 the operating system does is it has a, a pointer to the first process in the list, and it then,
 it enumerates these processes by basically by going to each one, reading the pointer for
 the next one, and then using that pointer to, to essentially follow this linked list or
 this chain of, of processes.
 So for example, what a root kit will do is, as soon as it starts up, and is, for that
 brief moment, it's on this list of processes that are running.
 The first thing it needs to do is hide itself.
 So with, with knowledge of the operating system at the kernel level, which is, which is below
 the knowledge that you would normally have that the operating system publishes at, in,
 in its API, which is what normal programs use the, the, the whole point is the root
 kit has knowledge sort of of the under, underlying technology of the specific operating system
 it's running on.
 It would itself follow this list of processes until it finds itself, then it would go to
 the one before it that was linking to it.
 And instead, it would change that link to point to the one after it, essentially un-linking
 it from this list of processes.
 Now when you run task manager or top, it just doesn't appear because the operating system
 follows these links, and basically you've sort of created this, this lost process, the,
 the sort of, you know, it's off the reservation.
 It's, it's no longer in the accounting system of the operating system, which the operating
 system inherently trusts.
 I mean, that's, these are the structures that the operating system uses for managing processes.
 So, so a root kit is able to, by having knowledge of the kernel, it's able to play games.
 Now one of the other things that we've talked about earlier in, in our podcast series, the
 other way in the beginning was the idea of hiding files.
 In order to hide files, the, the root kit would do something similar.
 It would essentially, if the technology is called hooking or filtering, it would, it
 would hook or filter the, the file enumeration functions or API application programming interface,
 which all of the operating system uses in order to like make a directory listing.
 So when, when a program wants to do a directory listing or find a file or open a file, it,
 it says give me the first file in the directory, and then it makes a series of calls to, to
 obtain successive files.
 Well, the root kit would intercept those functions that the operating system is offering to itself
 and everyone else, and it would, if it sees itself about to be returned, it would say,
 oops, let's not give up our own identity, but instead we'll make a request for the next
 file after us and return that.
 So the idea is a directory listing that would have shown the root kit files no longer does.
 So the root, so these are traditional root kit technologies that are, are well understood
 and in every case, and this was Joanna's point, in every case, they are, they're dependent
 upon specific OS structure knowledge, and they're using a hack or a Cluj in order to
 obscure their presence in the system, and, and her real point is, once you know what
 that hack or Cluj is, the root kit is detectable, and, and that's the big point.
 You detect it by seeing the traces of what it's doing, not by seeing it.
 Well, or for example, you would, you would, you would come up, for example, say it was,
 it was hiding from having disconnected it from the process list, well, there are other
 ways of enumerating processes.
 And so, you know, you would, you would compare one, one way of enumerating versus following
 the list, and you would discover a discrepancy that would reveal the root kit, or, or you
 would, for example, go and directly access the hard drive to, to do what the operating
 system does when it's making a directory listing, and you would compare your result of direct
 access to the hard drive to the, to the interface the operating system gives.
 And again, a discrepancy reveals what's going, in fact, that's exactly.
 That's what the root kit revealer does.
 Exactly.
 That's exactly what, what, what marks root kit revealer.
 It's the process it used.
 So, so, so how does the root people get around this?
 Well, and so her final point is that when root kits are open source, and you can see exactly
 how they work, you're able to come up with a way of detecting them.
 And her whole point is that, that, that blue pill can be open source.
 I mean, she could completely publish what she's done, and it is no help.
 How come?
 And how does anyone, how do it work?
 And the way it works is it is, it is, it is a fundamentally different kind of root kit,
 because it isn't relying on obscurity of any sort or, or a hack or a cluge.
 It's simply using the hardware, which has now been made available in the 64-bit architectures.
 And it's one of those things where, you know, the moment Intel, and AMD, and Microsoft learned
 of this, they're like, oh, no, I mean, it hadn't, it hadn't occurred to them, unfortunately,
 which is why Joanna's work is, is so important, because, you know, they're all excited about
 adding new features.
 Well, again, another fundamental principle of security, which never lets us down, is,
 you know, new features really need to be looked at carefully from a security standpoint.
 So, so all blue, blue pill is really doing, is taking advantage of the next generation
 hypervisory hardware built into, at this point, AMD's next generation chips, the, the, the
 SVM Pacifica technology that is now in those chips that Vista was running on, and she just
 turned it on.
 She said, okay, you know, I'm going to be a hypervisor, and the operating system said,
 yeah, okay, well, we don't really know what that is, but have a not, have a nice day.
 Okay.
 And so, so then people were saying, wait a minute, you know, being undetectable is impossible.
 And so, so there were a bunch of, you know, a bunch of fur, flu, and, and Joanna has defended
 herself admirably because she's raised the point that, you know, once you are in this,
 in this driver's seat as the hypervisor of the hardware, you know, you can control everything.
 And so people said, okay, wait a minute.
 What about the timing of instructions which you're having to filter?
 Because for example, there, there's an instruction, rdmsr, which allows you to read the msr register.
 That's one of the hardware registers, and bit 12 of the efer register in there.
 I know this makes your eyes crossed, but it just, you know, this stuff doesn't really
 matter.
 Except bit 12 says whether the processor is in SVM mode, that is, has this super, this
 hypervisory mode been active.
 So she, she, once she slips in to this role, basically turning the SVM mode on, and then
 immediately acquiring ownership of it, what she needs to do is prevent anybody else who
 wants to check to see if this system has been blue-pilled, she needs to, to fake the bit
 of that register and show that it's off, which means that she needs to intercept anyone's
 attempt to read the register.
 Well in doing so, she's inherently changing the timing of that read.
 So she may be able to trick us, but we can tell because it took longer than it should
 have.
 Exactly.
 In fact, in her studies, for example, there's another, there's another instruction, which
 actually I use all the time called RDTSC, read timestamp.
 RDTSC is a super high resolution timer.
 Actually what it is is it's a clock counter.
 So you literally get this 64 bit, or I guess in the next generation, 128 bit count of the
 number of clock crystal cycles.
 I mean, it runs at 3 gigahertz or 2.4 gigahertz or whatever speed your system is running.
 So I mean it's like infinite resolution, because it's the clock cycle of the processor.
 There is no higher resolution.
 So for example, this, this RDMSR, the attempt to read this register normally takes about
 90 ticks, 90 clock cycles.
 But her filtered version, when she's in the system, takes about 2,100.
 See we can tell exactly.
 So accept, accept, accept that there's also something in this SVM mode called the TSC offset.
 And it is, it is an offset from what the TSC, this timestamp returns.
 Oh, so you could change the result.
 So exactly, so she filters, she filters the read to the, this, this timestamp.
 She also intercepts that, and she subtracts the difference of the time she knows she's
 going to take.
 So she simply sets the offset to negative 2010.
 And so when her instruction, which takes, which takes 2,100 ticks, has 2010 subtracted
 from it, it returns 90.
 So again, I mean, it's a perfect example of how once you're in this hypervisory mode,
 even, I mean, anything software does in the system, even like trying to, to measure the
 time of things, even time can be faked.
 Now, you know, the first thing I thought when I was reading this is, okay, you need an external
 time reference.
 You need, you know, something not in the system outside of the system's control, you know,
 so like NTP, the network time protocol on, on, on the internet, go, you know, get a real
 piece of time data, but that user, that comes through the network interface and through
 the operating system and can be faked as well.
 And so then she carries on the argument that, well, okay, wait a minute.
 How about having the user tell how long something takes?
 Because for example, stopwatch, well, essentially, exactly that, the, the, the, some program
 would have to say, okay, user, push this button.
 And let's see how long it takes for, for, for me to do a certain amount of work.
 Like, do this read this, this, this RDMSR a million times.
 And I mean, it literally has to be about that much.
 So if it's really only taking 90 ticks, a million of those 90s would be 90 million.
 Right.
 If it's actually taking 2,100 clock ticks, a million of those is going to be obviously
 way longer.
 Right.
 But, I mean, but we're, you know, we're down to the point that, that that's the kind
 of, of, of, of detection fallback that is necessary.
 You could do that.
 I mean, there is, that would be, there's no way that they could prevent, you know, a
 manual detection timing of some kind.
 I can't see how she could prevent that.
 On the other hand.
 How many people are going to do that?
 Well, and, and the whole, the whole point of blue pill is that you, you, by mistake you
 run this and it's silently me.
 What's so very cool about this, you know, Microsoft research has, has got something called subvert,
 which is a similar sort of like, you know, boot time subversion of the OS.
 The research guys did this, but it's boot time and it requires writing things on the
 drive.
 So anything that's going to survive a boot needs to be on the hard drive.
 Blue, blue pill needs to record nothing on the drive.
 It's on the fly software that if you touched it by mistake, suddenly, you know, I mean,
 and that's what's so cool.
 I mean, I love it.
 You know, the, of course, all the analogies to the matrix because, you know, you don't
 know, I mean, nothing changes your screen doesn't even go burr, you know, is like, wait, what
 did you, what just happened there?
 I mean, nothing happens, but now it's underneath your operating system, controlling your hardware
 and is, is undetectable, except your extreme measures.
 So, so she makes the point that, you know, what are you going to do?
 Do a test that's going to take 10 minutes to run every hour to see if in the intervening
 hour, your system has been blue-pilled.
 I mean, there's no, there's no practical way to detect it on the fly.
 Now, Chris Microsoft is not happy about this because, you know, here they are.
 Oh, fist is the most secure operating system ever.
 Well, we already know listeners of security now know how I feel about statements like
 that.
 I mean, they are, they are ludicrous on their face.
 Yeah.
 Not declare something to be secure and here along comes Joanna and says, ah, well, no.
 Could you run?
 Okay, since we're going to use virtualization to attack the machine, could you then run
 your machine in a virtual machine as well and kind of protect it from the outside world?
 Well, she makes the point double virtualization, in other words, it's, it's probably the case
 that, you know, again, now that Microsoft is aware of this.
 And AMD and Intel are like, oh, this is maybe this is a little too powerful.
 I mean, obviously there are, there are very wonderful, good purposes to which this can
 be put.
 The idea being that, that, I mean, this is what VMware is a little upset about, you know,
 a lot of their proprietary technology was working around the lack of, of really good hardware
 support for virtualization, which is now coming in all of our 64 bit platforms.
 So, so, you know, and, and there, it's going to end up being subsumed by the OS.
 So I mean, it's, it's sort of a next level of, of responsibility that the operating system
 will need to take.
 Joanna makes the point that, well, maybe you could turn it off in the BIOS, but if you
 turn it off in the BIOS, what's the point of having it?
 Right.
 In fact, you can on many machines that are coming with this kind of technology, turn it
 off in the BIOS, in fact, by default, I think it's turned off.
 But you're right.
 Then you don't get the benefits of the virtualization.
 Yep.
 So, you know, again, it's, it's, it's that same sort of security cat and mouse game that,
 that we always end up playing.
 But it does underscore really, I think the, with, and by the way, I've seen the debates
 over this and they go on and on and they are not over.
 There are plenty of people who say, no, no, this isn't true, but it does underscore the
 risk of creating a hypervisor mode in general.
 Yes, it is, it is an extremely powerful mode.
 And you know, what will probably happen is that Microsoft will, instead of doing nothing
 with it, which I guess is what Vista was doing, will, you know, they will, they will turn
 on the SVM mode on the AMD and they will themselves preemptively filter those things
 that are necessary to take over that mode.
 They just, they hadn't.
 And again, we can thank Joanna for doing this this year and not two years from now.
 Because you know, Microsoft would have blissfully gone on and shipped Vista with this massive
 blue pill hole in its security.
 And then everyone would have been scampering around.
 The chief critic of this is a guy named Anthony LaGuardia who was working on a hypervisor
 for IBM.
 And obviously he doesn't like the idea of criticizing hypervisors.
 But in your opinion, is the real problem that the hypervisor exists at all?
 No, the real problem is that it's new.
 And we don't know what new new is bad.
 New is bad for security in, you know, in a year.
 Just as we were talking about Vista's virgin stack.
 Exactly.
 Yeah.
 Exactly.
 And so, so long came a, I mean, bottom line, I think this hardware technology is going
 to be fantastic because it will ultimately allow much more, you know, what it really
 means is simpler, easier and absolutely zero performance penalty for doing multiple OS
 solutions.
 And we like that.
 Oh, that's that's a win.
 Is it really zero?
 I mean, it really is.
 It is as zero as you can get.
 Wow.
 I mean, and that's what they've done is that they've, they've, they've absolutely minimized,
 just, you know, all of the overhead associated with, with any kind of multi OS virtualization.
 Your discussion of all this has really inspired me to think about using virtualization more
 thoroughly.
 You know, right now I use Windows and Mac machines and I have to use them roughly equally
 because I do, for instance, we record this show on Windows, I edited it on Windows.
 Because we're using Skype.
 Well, I, well, I use Skype on the Mac.
 I don't want them on the same machine.
 So forth.
 Anyway, but more and more I'm thinking, especially with VMware coming out with a solution for
 OS 10 that maybe I should buy one of these new Mac Pros which has so much horsepower and
 just, and just run, run both, get a big screen and have Windows side by side with a Mac on
 the same system.
 Sure.
 You know, I mean, just, it's really interesting what's happening with virtualization.
 Not just Windows, by the way, Linux as well.
 I mean, I could have, I have, I have three operating systems and, and of necessity, three
 machines right now with a, with a KVM switch boy be nice just to combine all that to one
 box.
 I mean, I mean, there has always been this, this big divide between, for example, Mac
 and Windows.
 I think I've mentioned before that I've got, I've got a, a friend who's not computer
 literate.
 She's struggles with what do I click the right or the left mouse button, you know, and I,
 I always wanted to move her over to a Mac where I think she'd just be more comfortable except
 that she, she's a realtor who needs to access, you know, one application under Windows.
 All, all users care about his applications.
 They don't care about operating systems.
 That's not enthusiast care about operating systems, but we're a minority.
 Yeah.
 Users just want to get the job done and, and, and hopefully not get hacked in the process.
 Yeah.
 I really think that, I mean, long term, this, the virtualization is going to be a very
 cool thing as we talked about at the very beginning of our series on virtual machine
 technology, you know, back when we were using DOS and we now had then, and, and the 386 chip
 came along, there were programs like software, carousel, QEMM, you know, and, and, and top
 view that allowed us with a single keystroke to just click between applications.
 Yeah, it was slick.
 It was, it was phenomenal back then.
 Yeah.
 And, and so now we're talking about literally clicking between operating systems.
 Yeah, I like that.
 I mean, imagine if you had a hotkey where, I mean, and we're talking robust.
 So being because it's supported by the hardware, well, if you had any more secure too, right?
 Because if anything goes wrong, you throw it out.
 Oh, I don't see that.
 Yeah.
 That's a very good point.
 And in fact, in our, in, in next week's episode, we're going to be talking about sandboxing
 and, and I mean, and the issues of sandboxing, which is sort of lightweight virtualization.
 And I mean, and it's all about security.
 So when you, when you have, when you have truly independent operating systems and, and
 the hardware is supporting the barrier between them rather than software that is always subject
 to modification and subversion.
 When you've got hardware doing that, they're hardwired.
 You know, there isn't any way, if everything else is done correctly, for them to get to
 each other.
 Yeah.
 But I mean, but I love the idea, you know, cause I mean, there are solutions which kind
 of work and are flaky and it's like, okay, well, I'm, you know, I think it's probably
 the thing that has put you off of virtualization until now, Leo, you know, when we've been
 talking about it.
 Slow down and reliable.
 Absolutely.
 Exactly.
 But imagine a really, really robust technology where, where you could just hit a hotkey and
 your screen just goes, click to windows.
 I kind of have that now with parallels on the Macbook and I feel pretty good about,
 and the new version coming out will be even better.
 So I feel like there's good, what I really feel like is we're making really good progress
 in this area.
 This is a hot area right now.
 Yeah, should we worry about blue pill?
 No.
 And, and that's really, I mean, Joanna, raise the alarm, Microsoft got caught unaware.
 They've, they promised they are going to close this whole down, which, which must mean they
 will turn on SVM technology and take ownership of it and filter the instructions just like
 Joanna was doing.
 She's going to do their own blue pill in effect.
 Basically.
 Yes.
 Some pre-blue pill that's often the way to fight these low level ring zero hacking tools
 is to, is to, is to be one of your own, well, to, to get their first, yes, it's always about
 who gets their first, if they're first interesting.
 And that's why it's so great that there's this robust, feisty, smart community out there
 that is challenging Microsoft.
 People might sometimes take umbrage at the fact that people are constantly attacking Microsoft,
 but that, which does not kill you, it makes you stronger.
 I think that this is really what we need.
 It's just, it's kind of analogous to an independent free press.
 Well, I will, I will make a prediction here on security now.
 Episode number, what are we, 54, 54, 54, the first episode of our second year, uh, for
 the second episode of our second episode of our second, wait, did I, did I number from
 zero or for what, um, the, the, that the hypervisory technology will be compromised because, you
 know, for example, remember in the old days with DOS viruses, there were these things
 called boot sector viruses.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 All because the hard, Michael Angelo, yep, because the hardware is now so powerful, a
 boot sector virus to, to pre-acquire SVM rights could happen.
 And so again, who gets there first?
 If something gets into the hardware before Vista boots, then it can fool Vista and I,
 you can just see hackers salivating at the idea.
 I mean, just, just tackling it because it's there.
 Oh boy.
 And I know.
 Oh boy.
 If you get, if you can get control of the hardware before the OS boots, now the hardware
 is powerful enough that, you know, it really needs to be looked at carefully fascinating
 stuff.
 As always, you bring up the good issues.
 This is one that's very hot right now in the security community.
 Thanks to her presentation at Black Hat and everybody's just buzzing about it.
 And I do hope Microsoft does something about it.
 Now you know, they'll try.
 Next week, next week's sandboxing.
 Okay.
 More virtualization.
 Yep.
 It's a hot topic right now.
 And we cover it very, very, as always with Steve in great detail, very thoroughly.
 We know that's what you want.
 This is one of the things I love about podcasting is that we can cover this stuff in detail.
 It's not the seven minute segment that we had to do on tech TV.
 We can, we can really cover it in depth and, and give you the information you want.
 By the way, if you want to follow it more closely, don't forget Elaine makes transcripts
 of every episode so you can actually read, read along, which I think is a really helpful
 way to find out what's, what Steve's talking about.
 And of course you own it so you can play it back again and again.
 Lots of people share it with their friends too support the podcast by visiting twit.tv
 and donating just a couple of bucks a month.
 Not only supports security now, but almost a dozen other podcasts and two more to come
 by the end of the month.
 So we're very excited, you know, about this of course as we add podcasts, our costs go
 up.
 We have to get new equipment and so forth.
 But we really feel like it's important to kind of get all of these podcasts on the air
 for you.
 So one, you're talking about getting a T1 now too.
 Well, and that's, yeah, I mean, there's always a little more, you know, I always want what's
 people have been good.
 They've been very generous.
 The donations are strong enough to support things like, you know, spending, you know,
 a little bit a month to have very high quality bandwidth.
 We lost a podcast because the other day because a DSL went out and I'm thinking I'm, I'm basing
 this whole network on consumer great DSL.
 Wait a minute.
 Maybe we ought to get a T1 in here.
 Well, and people really appreciate I think the, the show called, I see mail from people
 who say, you know, the, the twit family of podcasts sounds better than any other podcasts.
 And I mean, it makes a difference just in, you know, in, in the comfort of listening.
 I, yeah, well, that's of course a real goal of mine and, and I'm not happy yet.
 And there are things we can do, but they cost everything costs.
 So we want, we want you to be happy.
 Your donations help.
 And it is only $2 a month.
 So please go to twit.tv and press that button every a month.
 A couple of bucks.
 Think of it as buying Steve a latte once a month.
 That's not like I, like I need more, just what you need.
 We do thank our sponsors who also make it possible.
 The way it works is the donations go to infrastructure.
 The sponsorship goes to the hosts so that they don't currently, you know, they're donating
 their time and I'd like them to get paid to for Steve, he gets a little money every once
 in a while from a star corporation, makers of the star security gateway, very good company
 that have that came forward early on and have really been committed to this podcast.
 We really thank them.
 If you're small or medium business network needs superior protection from spam from viruses
 from hackers, of course, complete VPN capabilities, intrusion protection, content filtering and
 an industrial strength firewall, all in an easy to use, very simple high performance
 appliance.
 I have one and I did the one 20, it's just incredible.
 This thing is a rock and it makes me feel much more secure.
 Contact a star out of star O A S T A R O dot com or call 877 the number four A S T A R O
 to schedule a free trial of the star O security gateway appliance in your business.
 You know, another group I'd like to thank, and I don't think I thank him enough.
 I really should thank him every single podcast we do at the beginning is as AOL because they
 do such a great job without them.
 Really, this this network would not exist.
 The bandwidth provided over a terabyte a day, a terabyte a day from the folks at A O O radio
 A O O dot com slash podcasting a tip of the hat to Jeff Graham and the server guys and
 everybody at A O O radio, we thank you for your support to Steve Gibson's website is grc.com.
 Let's not forget that because that is that is Steve's day job and we want to make sure
 not only because of spin right, which is Steve's great product for file and recovery of your
 hard drives.
 I mean, it is just hard the ultimate hard drive tool which everyone should have in their toolkit.
 I certainly do.
 You know, I was thinking about what I said last week about how I've stopped putting the
 testimonials on that page because we're just that page is getting so long and we've got
 so many of them.
 It's great.
 I thought, wait, maybe people are going to stop sending them, but I wanted to it just
 makes me feel so good to hear these stories of success.
 So I'll be that I'll vouch for that.
 Steve will come to to me and when we get together in Toronto or at other times and says, look
 at these, he's got this bliss. I think that really gratifies Steve almost more than anything
 is to hear.
 Yeah.
 That's right.
 I love that it's able to help people so much.
 So Paul, I all means, you know, send them if you want.
 I love to read your stories of success with spin right.
 When you write software, it is, I think for anybody who codes it's more than just a job.
 It's a very gratifying to know that your code is being used to good benefit by people.
 S-P-I-N-R-I-T-E.info to see what people are doing with spin right and maybe get an idea
 of what you might want to do.
 G-R-C.com to get your copy, but of course, there are also many very useful free security
 utilities there, including shields up, which I use every time I set up a new router to
 check my router.
 I got all greens on my new D-Link.
 I'm so happy.
 Yeah.
 Stealth.
 Out of the box.
 All green.
 That's a nice feeling.
 And that's where you'll also find the 16 kilobit version of this show for the band with
 them paired, and Elaine's great transcripts if you want to read along.
 Follow along with, sing along with Steve.
 It's like Mitch Miller kind of.
 Follow the bouncing security.
 Anybody else knows who he is, except you in the video.
 You know, in 20 years, we're going to be doing this.
 A couple of old koots, and people are just going to say, we don't know.
 We have no idea what their references are, but it's just their relics, and we honor them,
 and we let them do it.
 I have a feeling.
 We'll be in a museum somewhere.
 Steve Gibson, have a great week, and we will see you next week for more virtualization
 on Thursday, every Thursday.
 I hope you're not seasick right now, Leah, wherever you are, out on the ocean.
 I'm Leo LaPorte for Steve Gibson.
 We'll see you next time on Security Now.
