 [ Music ]
 >> Podcasts you love.
 >> From people you trust.
 [ Music ]
 >> This is Tweet.
 [ Music ]
 >> Bandwidth for Security Now
 is provided by AOL Radio
 at AOL.com/podcasting.
 [ Music ]
 >> This is Security Now with Steve Gibson,
 Episode 58 for September 21st, 2006.
 Security Alert.
 Security Now is brought to you by
 a Staro, makers of the Staro Security Gateway
 on the web at www.ASTARO.com
 and by Dell.
 For this week's specials,
 visit twit.tv/dell
 and by Visa.
 Safer, better money.
 Life takes Visa.
 >> Welcome to Security Now,
 Leo LaPorte here,
 and actually this is a kind of change of pace.
 We'd already done,
 recorded a security now,
 when we learned of two serious
 security flaws.
 So because we are, you know,
 a podcast and willing and anxious
 to get this information
 to you as quickly as possible,
 we'll put off our discussion
 of parallels for next week
 and talk about the security flaws right now.
 >> Steve Gibson, what's going on?
 >> Well, hey, Leo.
 The timing of our Thursday podcast
 coincide perfectly with two pieces of news
 that I think are both really important.
 One is there's a new,
 just recently discovered
 zero-day exploit
 for Windows and IE,
 which can affect people browsing the web,
 and it turns out Microsoft made a mistake,
 and this is the second issue.
 Microsoft made a mistake
 in last month's security updates.
 One of their updates
 is can cause for Windows 2000 users
 file corruption.
 There's a fix available on Microsoft's site,
 but they don't have the original patch fixed,
 and so we're going to talk about both of these things.
 >> Well, let's start with the first one first
 because we have Eric Sykes on the line.
 He is a chief technology officer
 at VP of Research and Development at Sunbat Software.
 We've talked about Sunbat Software before.
 They're the great guys.
 >> Well, yeah, in fact,
 they're Alex Eckleberry purchased our favorite firewall,
 our personal firewall,
 Kerio, and sort of rescued it from oblivion,
 so we've talked about that on several occasions.
 >> Welcome, Eric.
 It's good to have you.
 >> Thank you, thank you.
 >> Eric was telling me that he flew to Czechoslovakia
 when they acquired a Kerio personal,
 and they bought it because they were fans of it.
 You like that firewall.
 >> It's a great firewall.
 Lots of interesting features.
 One of the only firewalls that has IPS ideas built into it,
 and then also the web filtering,
 so you can get rid of advertisements,
 get rid of scripting just by easy little checkbox.
 >> I like the price.
 >> The price is always good.
 >> So, let's talk about this first exploit
 that Steve was referring to.
 In fact, I first learned of it when I got an email
 from a listener in Blackpool, England,
 who said Steve was right,
 turn off JavaScript.
 >> Yeah, that was initially the first way
 to deal with the known exploit that's in the wild,
 but we've since learned that you need to unregister
 the VGX DLL because you can still be --
 other exploits can be created that do not use scripting.
 >> Okay, we'll talk about how to do that
 so that you can protect yourself,
 but tell us, first of all, how did you uncover this?
 Sunbelt was the first to find this flaw.
 >> Yes, we have a lot of researchers
 who basically spend all of their days searching the web,
 revisiting old websites that we know of
 that are used to -- that use scripts and things
 to push malware down on people,
 push all the bad stuff down to users' desktops
 when they're just browsing the web.
 And so we have some automated processes
 plus these manual processes,
 and unfortunately the manual processes are still necessary.
 So while one of the researchers was checking a list
 of these known websites,
 he came across this strange pop-ups
 that normally don't exist when he goes to that website.
 So he started investigating them more,
 and it was actually several websites away
 from the original one he was on,
 because they were using iFrames,
 which is used a lot to direct you to another website
 that pulls down new data,
 and then to another website that pulls down other data.
 >> These iFrames are a little HTML frames within a page
 that actually are another page.
 >> Exactly.
 >> Exactly.
 >> And I stand for inline for aim.
 >> Yes.
 >> So we tracked it down to the source,
 and we've reported on this kit called the web attacker kit.
 There's a Russian website you can go up to,
 you can buy this thing,
 and they offer tech support services
 just like a real company.
 >> Everything.
 >> Everything that a normal software company offers.
 >> It's 20 bucks.
 >> Yeah, 20 bucks.
 And you give them your server credentials
 and they install it for you and configure it for you.
 >> Oh, hey, that's a deal.
 >> Yeah, and the basic idea is that they create a kit
 that allows you to exploit the users that come to your website.
 >> So it's purchased by people who just want to distribute spyware
 mostly?
 >> Spyware and adware.
 Mostly adware because they want to get paid for the installation
 of that piece of software on the user machine.
 And they'll get a couple of cents for every person who comes by.
 You know, and we've seen these guys very successful at it.
 And what this kit does is it figures out what browser you're using.
 If it's Firefox, there's exploits in Firefox that knows about.
 If it's Internet Explorer, there's exploits there.
 And it figures out what version of the browser you have
 and then targets the specific exploit to that version.
 Well, this new exploit works on XPSB2
 with Internet Explorer in all the latest patches.
 >> It works, as you point out, or actually it was your colleague Alex
 pointed out in the Sun Belt blog, it works no matter how patched your machine is.
 I mean, if you have a completely update machine, it still works.
 >> Yeah, and this exploit actually also works all the way back to IE 5.0.
 >> Do we know if it works in IE 7?
 We were talking about that earlier.
 >> We are still testing that, but there's some instances that if it's running on VISTA,
 it doesn't. If you're running on regular XPSB2,
 we're still looking into to track that down.
 >> You know, Erica, I think I know the answer to this question,
 but we've just been talking about this topic.
 So I'm just going to lead you into this.
 When you guys are surfing the web and going to probably malicious sites
 and doing so, how do you guys protect yourself
 from actually damaging the machines that are visiting?
 >> Well, we use a product called VMware.
 >> Boy, was that a softball question, Steve?
 I'm ashamed of you.
 >> Yep, we've just been talking about virtual machine technology
 and how they can be used to really provide robust protection.
 So you guys literally use VMware virtual machines,
 knowing that nothing that you do inside the machine can get out of there
 to infect your actual R&D and real research machines.
 >> Yeah, we have separate connections from our regular networks
 to these machines, and then on top of those machines,
 we use VMware plus firewalls.
 One of the reasons we use the firewalls for logging information
 to see what's coming through the network at a connection level,
 and then we use packages on top of ads and lots of lots of little tools.
 >> Would running a firewall have protected me against this VML exploit?
 >> No, because it looks just like a normal Internet request,
 and since that request is coming from Internet Explorer,
 the firewall, all it knows is that, oh, this looks like Internet Explorer
 downloading something new.
 >> It's legitimate.
 Is it a graphic in the VML is a vector market language?
 It's a vector graphic file, is it right?
 >> Correct.
 >> Have you gone in and looked at the code that is implementing this buffer overflow?
 >> Yes, yes.
 Well, there's the exploit code, and then there's the actual VGX DLL
 that has the bug in it.
 So we've actually looked at both.
 And the exploit code uses a technique which can read --
 once you've overwritten a buffer, and since this buffer is on the stack,
 you overwrite a lot of very important information that allows you --
 that new data to gain control of the executing program.
 So it overrides this really important information,
 and then when the function call returns,
 then it can return to whatever code you've given it.
 Now, there's XP -- sorry, IE6, SB2,
 has some things in it that are supposed to stop this.
 But since this bug is on the stack and the amount of information
 you give it kind of blows -- what they call the blow that blows the stack,
 they overwrite this protection.
 So there's a couple actual exploits out there that are on hacker websites,
 but currently they don't have a reliable one that targets IE6, SB2.
 So right now we've still only seen this exploit,
 and the wild is the only one we've seen that actually has a true XP,
 SB2, IE, SB2 exploit.
 Wow. So it sort of advanced that technology as well.
 Yeah, the guys who make this web attacker kit --
 I mean, it's pretty much their lifeblood is to find new exploits
 or build new exploits so that they can sell their services to --
 Stephen and I have talked about this before.
 That's what's really changed, I think, in the hacker climate.
 It's no longer just for fun or to show off or for bragging rights.
 There's money to be made.
 Exactly. It's very rare that we see that type of thing anymore.
 I mean --
 Now, you guys happen to discover this by going around to these sites.
 We don't know at this point how long this exploit has been in use.
 Well, we've got -- yeah, as soon as we found this,
 we started talking to the rest of the security community.
 The other security companies, antivirus companies,
 and guys who monitor these exploits --
 companies like I Defense, mostly the do just pure research --
 and they've gone back through their logs and say that it's probably been out there
 for about a week. So it's actually pretty new.
 It's not on that many websites, but the number of websites that are using this exploit
 is pretty much growing very quickly.
 A lot of security companies like Sunbelt have what are called web spiders
 that can go across the Internet and actually look for certain things.
 So our spiders are going looking for the websites that have this exploit on it.
 Another company that a good friend of ours called WebSense is doing the same thing.
 They're also sharing that information with the rest of the security community.
 Do you have any idea of how many people use this web attacker kit?
 I know personally, over 1,000 websites that are using this kit.
 What kinds of websites?
 This -- all kinds of -- pretty much anything.
 Most of its porn sites -- they've got to put something up to get people to come to this site.
 Well, and how about fake freeware and shareware download sites?
 Yeah, well, mostly, though, it's cracks or serial number sites.
 Or what they call wearers sites.
 And the problem is, it's not the 1,000 websites we know of.
 It's all the other sites that use them in these i-frames that communicate back to one of these sites.
 So there's -- that web is weaved very deep.
 So there's any number of websites you may go to, and it doesn't actually have the exploit on it,
 but it points back to another website that does.
 Right.
 Now, there are many -- well, the best way to protect yourself from this exploit right now,
 and the only way, since Microsoft hasn't released a patch for it,
 is to unregister the vgx.dll, the DLL that has the bug in it that these guys are using to exploit your system.
 Right. We have complete instructions on our page, on the security now page.
 Along with each podcast, we have a page of additional links and information.
 And so I've got instructions there on that page for all of our listeners.
 It's just a command line. Is that a simple command line?
 Yeah, a very simple command line.
 Yeah, it's very simple.
 You can just cut it right off the page, drop it into the Run dialog off of the Start button,
 and you get a little pop-up that confirms that the DLL has been unregistered.
 You should then reboot your system to flush it out if it's already been loaded by an instance of IE,
 which is probably unlikely, but it's better to be safe than sorry.
 And from that point on, your system's protected.
 Is there any side effect to doing this? What am I going to lose?
 There are a few websites that use VML.
 There's some advertising websites that have little banners and things.
 So if you go to a news website and has a little banner, sometimes those banners will use VML.
 So I'm not going to see a bunch of ads. Big deal.
 I can live with that.
 And Leo, the whole vector graphics movement is it's relatively new technology for the web.
 So it's very sparsely used.
 I doubt that anybody who did this and unregistered this, essentially turning off the ability for their systems
 to render these vector images on the web.
 I don't think anyone would notice any difference.
 And certainly it makes sense to do this until Microsoft is able to catch up with their early October patch cycle.
 What kind of consequences could I expect if I don't do this?
 Let's say I go to one of these bad sites that's running on the web attacker.
 What's going to happen to me?
 Here's another interesting tidbit that's not widely known that since VML is kind of embedded
 into Internet Explorer and email systems use Internet Explorer to display HTML pages,
 you can actually craft an HTML page with this VML exploit in it that does not use scripting
 that bypasses your Outlook protections and will actually exploit Outlook also.
 But right now it's only certain versions of Outlook.
 And what happens after the exploit explodes?
 As soon as you look at that email and view it in the preview pane or open up that email,
 that exploit can download whatever it wants to your machine.
 So spyware, malware, trial and key loggers.
 The first site we came across with this in the morning, it was only downloading one program,
 an adware called Virtumando, which displays advertisements.
 By the late afternoon it was downloading 50 other pieces of malware, which included key loggers,
 tons of adware, all kinds of stuff.
 So what happens, the community, the bad website community goes out and says,
 "Hey, we've got a great way to get your software.
 Anybody want to buy some computers?"
 They do an auction or something and say, "And that's how they get all this new malware?"
 People say, "Oh, yeah, please put mine on there?"
 No, no, there's all the adware companies.
 They have the services, you go up, you sign up for the service and say,
 "Hey, I want to install your software.
 All the people come to my website."
 And they give you some information that allows them to track how many people
 from your website install this time.
 So you'll have a referrer code that they can --
 You have this code or some other information and they basically --
 money automatically shows up in your account every month as --
 It's tempting to install this time.
 Leo, I'm not going to do.
 But it's tempting.
 This is an interesting debate, of course, is when do you reveal this publicly?
 Microsoft would far prefer people don't tell anybody about this in the security community.
 You know, it's constantly debating whether to reveal these exploits or not.
 What process do you go through about revealing this?
 Well, we have a pretty defined set of procedures that we look at when we come
 across things like this.
 And usually those procedures come down to, you know, if it's in the wild.
 If it's in the wild --
 Once it's out there, you've got to tell the world.
 In this case, as a zero-day exploit, there's no reason not to immediately get the word out
 so you can start protecting users.
 Yeah.
 I mean, you have to contact the security companies.
 You have to contact the AV companies so they can write signatures for these web pages.
 Do you call Microsoft, too?
 Yes, yeah, that's about the first thing you do.
 You always call the vendor, whoever makes that software that's got the exploit on it.
 You talk to them and say, "Hey, we found this."
 If it's something that you haven't seen in the wild, you go through a period of letting them
 fix this bug.
 However long it takes, sometimes it may take a month, four months, five months, six months.
 Sometimes longer.
 Sometimes longer.
 I get it fixed.
 I've talked to some guys at EI who have known about an exploit for a long time.
 Eventually, your patience wears thin and you just feel like you have to tell the world.
 Yeah.
 Sometimes that happens and what they're feeling on it, not picking on high, but EI, but other
 security researchers, usually the independent guys, they'll release it and just to get that
 vendor to fix that bug.
 Or just to get some notoriety.
 I mean, if you're a small guy and you want to get that name for yourself, that's one
 way to do it.
 Yeah.
 Unfortunately, that does happen.
 You know, our seizures are, if it's not in the wild, you tell the vendor, let the vendor
 fix it and you just keep checking with them and say, "Hey, guys, you got it done yet?
 Is it fixed?
 You got it tested?"
 When you call Microsoft yesterday, what was their response?
 They usually don't get a lot of response from Microsoft.
 You basically get a lot of canned information that says, "Okay, we're looking at it."
 And then, usually, they'll start publishing this information through their normal channels
 so that everybody gets the information at the same time.
 So they started doing that and now you've got a tech net article out there that basically
 gives all the information that an IT company would need, the antivirus guys, other security
 companies like yourself.
 Eric Sykes is a VP of R&D at Sunbelt Software, Sunbelt-Software.com.
 And, of course, we tell people to go there for the free carry-o personal firewall, a
 great firewall.
 But we also thank you for giving us an update on this VML exploit to Eric.
 Hey, welcome.
 Thanks so much, Eric.
 Welcome.
 Take care.
 Thank you.
 Thanks.
 Now, that's just exploit number one, Steve Gibson.
 Yes.
 It's been a busy day.
 We ain't done yet.
 Okay.
 Before we leave this, I want to make sure that people get basically the main headline
 takeaway issue, which is all versions of Windows using IE, modern versions of IE 5 and 6 have
 in them a newly discovered buffer overrun, which is being actively exploited, as we heard
 Eric explain, on the net to install all kinds of bad stuff.
 Microsoft has said that unless they change their mind and release a patch for this sooner,
 it'll be part of the early October update cycle.
 So, you know, three weeks from now or almost four.
 So in the meantime, it is possible to just remove this VML rendering capability by unregistering
 it from the system.
 The system will then just sort of not know about this bad DLL where the exploit exists.
 Your browser will lose the ability to render vector graphics, but almost no one uses that
 now.
 I mean, it's not like you wouldn't be able to show GIFs or JPEGs.
 They all still work just fine.
 It's only the special type of scalable line drawing, which is what is lost.
 So on the security now page, we've got the specific information, a link to Microsoft's
 security advisory, and a very clear explanation of how just to cut and copy this one line,
 drop it into your run menu, execute it, you'll get a little pop up saying the DLL has been
 unregistered, then after you reboot your system, you are completely protected from this.
 And I really recommend everyone do this a month from now, and we'll remind people you're
 going to want to re-register this after Microsoft has fixed it, so you will restore the ability
 to render this vector graphics, because ultimately in the future, it may end up being used more,
 but it's almost not used at all today.
 But don't run out and do it right away.
 Wait till we tell you it's safe to do so.
 So this second exploit is not nearly as much of a concern for XP users, but it is something
 to worry about for Windows 2000 use.
 Well, and it freaked me out, Leo, because by pure coincidence, I don't often update my
 main GRC servers, because they're working fine, they're in a very secure and protected
 environment.
 I'm not there using a browser on the server surfing around the net.
 So the vulnerability window is much smaller for a typical server than it is for a user's
 workstation where they are out there poking around.
 But as it happened, I was and did completely bring a not the main GRC server, but another
 ancillary server up to speed last week.
 Oh, I timed it so well, Steve.
 Oh my God, I completely patched it, everything was fine.
 Then I got the I got wind of this second issue, which is as follows.
 It turns out that the last month security update, this is the I think it was August 8th, is
 when Microsoft did a, you know, their standard monthly update.
 One of the patches and again, we've got links and all the specific information on the security
 now supplementary page for for for this episode number 58 of security now.
 One of their patches had a bug as they call it a regression bug, where they they broke
 something.
 A regrettable bug.
 Yeah, they broke something that they were trying to fix.
 And this was a a kernel privilege escalation exploit, which they were patching.
 Well, it turns out that what they broke for only for Windows 2000 and only for NTFS and
 only for compressed files is any compressed file on NTFS, which actually is redundant
 because fat 32 doesn't do, you know, that level of compression.
 If it's updated or created or changed and the file is larger than 4k, it can become corrupted.
 So, I mean, it's a serious problem.
 It's a file corruption bug that's a that's a really bad bug.
 It's really bad.
 And I got a kick out of, well, I got a sad kick out of Microsoft's work, or like what
 to do if you have this problem, they say, well, restore from a backup prior to doing this.
 Okay, because you've lost all your data, and so it might be a good idea to restore it.
 Because it is capable of corrupting files under Windows 2000, which are compressed.
 Now, for example, I deliberately will compress whole directories like my my, you know, on
 my personal system, my source code directory is compressed because source code gets such
 a tremendous advantage from compression.
 So, it occupies much less space.
 So, okay, so the way things stand at this point, Microsoft has just released a fix for
 the problem.
 That is, there is a there is a fix that can be easily installed.
 I immediately did this over on the server because last week I by updating myself to the most
 recent latest and greatest security, I've introduced this vulnerability.
 It does require a reboot, I was trying to think whether it did or not, because I tried
 to install it a second time, and it knew that it had already been installed.
 So, there I did not require a reboot.
 But anyone using Windows 2000, I strongly recommend you go to the to again, to security
 now's supplementary information page, I've got all the details and links there.
 You can install a a a patch for their patch, which broke this problem.
 And then they have not yet fixed the original patch from last month.
 So, you can fix this in the meantime, and and you know, then the then this second really
 bad problem that only affects Windows 2000 users will be resolved.
 Wow.
 Wow.
 Well, I'm glad, you know, the beauty of podcasting is we're very flexible.
 And if there's a need for an update, we will do it.
 And that's one of the reasons I like doing security now.
 And of course, if this had happened on a Tuesday, we'd do it on a Tuesday because it is that
 important.
 We want to let you know.
 We will defer our discussion of parallels till next week.
 We do thank you for listening.
 We do remind you, of course, that the show notes are online at grc.com.
 And this is one where you do want to go to those show notes to get that command line
 that will unregister the vlw or is it vwl?
 I can never remember.
 It's actually it's vgx dot dll that allows the vector library.
 Yes.
 You're not able to delete it or rename it because I'm registered.
 Yes.
 Because Windows is watching for that and will automatically replace it from his dll cache.
 So unregistering it and then rebooting your system, everybody listening to this who's
 using Windows wants to do this as soon as they can.
 Because as Eric said, this thing is spreading like wildfire because it is a brand new exploit
 that allows anyone who's innocently visiting a website or opening email to get themselves
 infected.
 Now, it is worth mentioning something Eric didn't mention and we didn't bring up.
 The exploit code does run within the privileges of the currently logged in user.
 So if you were a limited user, you are not if you are not logged on as administrator.
 I mean, you still don't want this thing in your system, but it's another demonstration
 of the benefit of not running as an administrator.
 Because as we know, here we are, you know, bringing this news to our listeners immediately,
 but immediately is a week after this has already been out in the wild.
 No doubt, tens of thousands of users have already been bitten by this who have been going to
 these websites, you know, just innocently browsing the net.
 So even though we're getting the information out immediately, had users not been running
 as administrators have if they've been running as a limited user.
 And in fact, I'm getting a lot of email from people who are saying, Hey, you know, I've
 been trying that and it's not as bad as I thought it would be.
 So it's not really that burdensome and you would have always been more protected than
 you would be if you were running as an administrator.
 So, you know, again, that's always a good idea and it would have it would have made
 you more safe, although still, you certainly don't want to be browsing sites and letting
 anything crawl into your machine.
 I did really love it that in fact, well, I did really love it that these guys are using
 VMware.
 It wasn't that perfectly and VMware in order to go to these places knowing that the stuff
 will be contained within a virtual machine and not able to get out and infect their machines.
 Well, you said that you said that a lot of security companies did that and it makes sense.
 So why should you, you know, risk your own hardware to test this stuff and that's how
 you do it?
 Right.
 Steve, we, of course, are sponsored today and every day, every week by a Staro Corporation
 makers of the Staro security gateway line of network security appliances, complete protection
 from network web and e-mail security threats at ASTARO.com.
 A great opportunity for those of you who listen to security now, Staro is offering security
 now listeners a free demo unit to test to protect your networks, call 877-427-8276, mention
 that you heard it on security now and or you can go to ASTARO.com and you'll get a free
 demo unit, they'll ship it to your business or office in one business day.
 So but do mention security now because we'd like to let them know that we're glad they're
 listening and sponsoring this show.
 That's ASTARO.com.
 Also a tip of the hat to Visa and Visa's double layers, multiple layers of security, protecting
 your credit card and make sure you sign your card, choose a pin that's unique and secret
 and memorize it.
 Don't write it on the card and check your financial statements regularly.
 Visa wants you to know that it's safe to use your Visa online.
 Safer Better Money Life takes Visa and as long as I'm talking, let's get one more mention
 in here for the Twit Dell Ads.
 We've got a great Dell pick today, this week, a very, very affordable and I think a very
 good system, both laptops and desktops at twit.tv/del.
 If you're about to buy a new computer, check it out, twit.tv/del and in fact if you use
 that link and to buy any Dell, we get credit and we appreciate it if you do that.
 Twit.tv/del thanks to all three for sponsoring security now and thanks to you Steve.
 We're going to get this out quickly.
 They'll probably take a little while to get the transcripts up because Lane won't have
 much time.
 We're recording this minutes before it actually goes live.
 But the transcripts will go up as soon as Lane thank you, Elaine, for an emergency job.
 But the good news is you'll have next week's podcast early.
 I will mention for people, this is important enough that I'm going to be putting links
 to all of this information on the GRC.com home page.
 So anybody who is really in a hurry to get this, don't even worry about navigating through
 security now, just go to the home page, GRC.com, the top of the page, there will be a link
 to the security now, episode 58 page that's got all the information to allow people to
 protect themselves.
 And I should also say, certainly everyone listening to this knows people who they care
 about who are using Windows who are not listening to this.
 Please, yes, spread the word.
 You can either give them the instructions yourself because it's very easy to unregister
 this DLL or you can certainly aim them at security now's page where I've got the all
 of the instructions written out, and of course that Windows 2000 file corruption bug.
 If you know friends who are running Windows 2000, tell them about that too, before they
 corrupt their data.
 Unfortunately, this is one thing that the spin right cannot fix.
 This is such a file level corruption and spin right doesn't deal with the file level.
 It deals with the hard drive level.
 But if there is ever a problem with your hard drive or a file recovery issue, there is no
 better software out there than spin right S P I N R I T E, you can get it at GRC.com or
 go to spin right dot info for a list of wonderful testimonials of people who Steve has saved.
 Yeah, I've been getting so much email from people, Leo, I just I just love it.
 Isn't it nice?
 I think sometimes just I'm not saying we don't like to get paid, but the acknowledgement
 really is in many ways the way we get paid.
 It's it really is nice to know that when you're doing something that's helping people.
 That's a great feeling.
 Steve Gibson.
 Thank you so much.
 Also our guest Eric site from the Sunbelt Software Company for being on the phone with
 us.
 We don't usually have guests on the show, but since you have a you know these guys and
 it was we could get them quickly on it's really nice to have them on Eric was wonderful.
 Yeah, that's very knowledge.
 Really good.
 Yeah.
 And these are the guys who found it.
 So it's always great to get them on.
 I'm Leo LaPorte.
 We will see you next Thursday on security now.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
