 ♪♪
 Netcast, you love.
 From people you trust.
 ♪♪
 This is Twit.
 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by
 CashFly at C-A-C-H-E-F-L-Y.com.
 ♪♪
 This is Security Now, Episode 592.
 For airing Tuesday, December 27, 2016.
 The portable dog killer.
 Hello, everybody, and welcome to our holiday episode of
 Security Now.
 This show comes from a little ways back.
 When did we do this?
 Five or six years ago now, I think.
 And it's a great story that Steve Gibson
 told about a device.
 Steve is an inventor.
 I don't know if you know that.
 I mean, we know him for his software work,
 for his work on privacy and security.
 But he's also an engineer.
 His first product was a light pen for the Apple II computer.
 And he just loves building things.
 Especially if those things solve a problem.
 Sit back and enjoy.
 It's becoming our Christmas carol.
 [ Laughs ]
 Steve Gibson, as he tells the story
 of the portable dog killer.
 And by the way, no dogs were harmed
 in the making of this episode.
 It's time for Security Now, the show that covers
 everything you need to know about keeping yourself safe,
 secure, and private online.
 Who better to do that than the man who discovered
 spyware, Corinne the term, wrote the first anti-spyware program.
 He's been a security maven for years.
 The author of "Spin Right," the world's best hard drive utility.
 Mr. Steve Gibson of grc.com.
 -Steve here, Leo. -Good to see you.
 -Great to be with you again, as always.
 We have today a very different episode.
 One that I really do believe our listeners
 are going to get a big kick out of something
 I've never done before.
 A number of -- there's sort of a confluence of things
 that came together.
 This is -- actually, this coming Sunday, May 16th,
 is the 50th anniversary of the invention of the laser.
 -Whoa! -First time that it was done practically.
 Einstein gave us the fundamental theory
 back in 1917, which predicted that you could stimulate
 the emission of radiation, which is what the SER of laser
 stands for, that you could stimulate the emission
 of radiation from molecules, but it wasn't until many years
 later, and May 16th, 1960, was the day that some researchers
 at Hughes first made a laser-laze.
 There was a maser beforehand, a microwave amplification
 through stimulated emission of radiation,
 but never super high-frequency,
 which is to say light amplification
 through stimulated emission of radiation.
 Anyway, the show is not about lasers.
 This is about something I did when I was 16 years old.
 -Oh.
 -That was sort of related.
 The episode is called "The Portable Dog Killer."
 -Oh, God, I can't wait.
 -I'm going to explain, of course,
 but the anniversary of the laser got me thinking about this.
 Also, I've been, you know, now Twitter plus one week.
 -How's that been for you?
 -Well, we'll talk about that in a rat a little bit.
 It's been really interesting, but mostly,
 there was just a really tremendous outpouring of people
 on approaching 5,000 photos.
 -I love it, and you're posting great stuff.
 You took my advice to heart.
 You're posting a lot of great links, and it's wonderful.
 -It's been, well, and I've been getting a lot of great feedback
 about it, and so that kind of warmed me up,
 and I thought, well, let's try something different,
 a personal episode, but also one of the other things
 that we've sort of talked about a couple times
 is something I'm constantly getting from people in the Q&A,
 mailbag, is questions about career.
 Like, how do I get going?
 How do I compete?
 How do I, you know, get traction in the world?
 And so this story I'm going to tell has a moral also
 that sort of, I think, vividly answers that question.
 So we're going to have some fun in this next hour or so.
 -So shall we start with news?
 -Yeah, we have our typical line-up of calamities and disasters.
 This is just, this is our first podcast
 after the second Tuesday of the month.
 So of course, we've got Microsoft's monthly security update.
 This one was very skinny, although broad.
 They only released two patches this Tuesday on the May 11th,
 but they affected pretty much everything.
 They're critically rated.
 They affect every version of the operating system,
 which Microsoft still supports.
 Probably the ones that Microsoft doesn't support any longer too.
 And then, in fact, they remind us again
 that Windows 2000 support ends in July.
 So Windows 2000, XP 2003, Vista 2008, Windows 7,
 I mean, even 2008 R2, Office XP had some effect,
 both XP 2003 and 2007.
 So all the OS's and the Office suite, they had a problem.
 There was a DLL overrun problem, a memory corruption,
 vulnerability in the stack.
 And of course, thanks to our series on fundamental computer
 technology, our listeners have a much better sense
 for what a stack is today.
 And then also an embarrassing DNS spoofing problem,
 where we've talked about DNS spoofing almost about a year
 ago when Kaminsky exposed what was going on
 with servers not being sufficiently random in their queries.
 Well, it turns out that Microsoft hasn't been,
 that in some cases they were using sequential DNS IDs,
 which is as bad as it gets.
 And in another case, they were ignoring a comparison check
 for the returned ID so that it was
 possible to spoof these operating systems with fake DNS
 replies.
 So it's like, whoops, that's fixed as of a couple days ago.
 So it's not a big horrible problem,
 but it's something that you're definitely
 going to want to update, as I'm sure everyone will.
 And it doesn't matter which version of Windows you're using.
 So following up on-- remember, we talked about months ago
 now, the school in Pennsylvania, the Lower
 Marion School District.
 Well, it turns out that as these things go,
 much more research has been done.
 And what brought this back on my radar
 was just a number of pictures that
 had been taken of students in their homes by the IT people.
 58,000.
 What?
 58,000 pictures.
 Obviously they were on and constantly shooting.
 Yes, exactly.
 This is criminal.
 Somebody's going to jail.
 Well, that's a following.
 So they've, of course, been sued by the outraged parents
 of students and in a report that they commissioned,
 that their defense-- the school district's defense law firm
 commissioned that they hired to defend them against this,
 the report said, quote, "the district's
 failure to implement policies, procedures, and record-keeping
 requirements, and the overzealous and questionable use
 of technology by IS personnel without any apparent regard
 for privacy considerations or sufficient consultation
 with administrators lies at the root of this problem."
 It's like, oh, OK.
 Shocking.
 Yeah, not good.
 But when I saw 58,000, I thought, OK, I just
 have to mention that again, because that's amazing.
 There was a power trip going on, too.
 I remember reading some comments from one of the IT people
 like, oh, yes.
 She said something like they were talking about watching
 these pictures.
 And she says, yeah, it's addicting, isn't it?
 It's like, what?
 Wow, it's like, well, voyeur issues.
 It was voyeuristic.
 It was creepy.
 It was really creepy.
 Wow.
 I wanted to advise our listeners that there
 is an old worm which has reappeared in new clothing.
 It's using Yahoo Messenger and is in the process
 of accelerating its spread around the world.
 It's becoming a big problem.
 And so a number of security firms
 have our alerting people.
 Bitdefender has and Symantec has.
 It uses Yahoo Messenger, so it spreads through IMing people
 who are who your friends are in Yahoo Insta Messenger.
 It appears as a JPEG or a GIF image, which
 is actually malicious code.
 And it's an aggressive Trojan.
 It installs a backdoor in the victim's machine,
 which allow attackers to take over the machine
 to install additional malware, steal files, intercept passwords,
 and grab other authentication information,
 launch spam, or other malware attacks against other systems,
 and much like Conficker, although this is not Conficker,
 it's picked up Conficker's additional spreading tricks.
 So it spreads not only through IM,
 but also via network shares on a machine that's
 been infected, removable USB drives using autorun.
 So this is something you absolutely don't want to get.
 So unfortunately, it comes in the disguise of messages
 from people you know and trust.
 Oh, it's not from a stranger.
 No, it's not from a stranger.
 They have to be infected themselves, of course.
 Yes, and so it is jumping around a lot.
 So just wanted to give everyone a heads up.
 There is a new zero-day exploit for Safari on Windows.
 I thought this was kind of funny because it wasn't--
 now they say they don't know if it's Safari on the Mac.
 Well, exactly.
 And I don't know that it's affected anybody
 because who's running Safari on Windows?
 Some people apparently.
 OK.
 Anyway, Windows Safari version 4.0.5 and earlier is vulnerable.
 It has not been seen in the wild.
 It was disclosed by a security firm that said, oh, by the way,
 here's a way that you can abuse the way Safari handles pop-ups.
 And if that was security yet that we've talked about before,
 that's a good company, they produced a demo where they're
 able to launch just the Windows Calculator app, which
 demonstrates that they're able to run arbitrary code
 on your machine.
 So I'm sure Apple will fix this quickly, I would imagine.
 And so there will be an update which we'll probably
 talk about next week or soon, I hope.
 That would be good.
 And there's been a lot of controversy
 about a supposed massive new problem
 that affects all antivirus software.
 There's a technique or actually a component of Windows
 called the system service descriptor table, the SSDT.
 And this has been making the rounds in the last few days.
 But Patrick Norton picked up on the fact
 or somehow someone said to him, and then he actually tweeted it.
 I learned about it through his Twitter.
 See, see, see, I know that in fact, this is old news
 from as far in the past as 2002.
 So I didn't have a chance to pursue this this week,
 but I wanted to let everyone know who's listening,
 that I'm aware of this because I've
 been getting responses through Twitter.
 And I'm sure there's mail in the mail bag about this.
 So I will have an informed response next week
 to nail down whether this is actually news.
 What Patrick is saying is through what he found
 is that someone is claiming and is showing links to this being
 old news that has essentially been plagiarized.
 Some security firm saying that this is their invention when,
 in fact, they're just taking something
 that was known years ago.
 So I don't know one way or the other,
 but it's something worth pursuing.
 Yeah, and of course, we talked about this.
 Or maybe we talked about it on Windows weekly,
 but 64-bit Windows has this kernel protection, which
 kind of prevents any virus companies
 from using this suspect technique anyway.
 Yes.
 In fact, well, it's been a problem that Windows historically
 has required, I guess I say, aggressive techniques
 to do things other than run apps.
 And we're going to be talking, actually in the next week,
 about operating systems and in our continuing look
 at fundamental technology.
 But what operating systems do by definition
 is publish a bunch of services, the so-called API
 of the operating system, that client programs, that
 is programs running under the operating system,
 use in order to do what they want to do.
 Well, the problem with any kind of antivirus program
 is it doesn't want to run as a client.
 I mean, it doesn't want to be like an equal citizen
 on the operating system, because it
 can't in order to do the kinds of things it wants to do.
 If it's going to be intercepting your email,
 if it's going to be somehow hooking into your network
 and checking for spam, regardless of what clients you're
 using or checking pages before they come up in your browser,
 it has to function very much like an addition
 to the operating system.
 It's got to get underneath and not just
 be operating as a typical OS client.
 Well, Microsoft has never provided what we would call hooks
 for that.
 I mean, that's really sort of antithetical to what they want.
 They don't want people messing with the core of the operating
 system.
 And you can understand, because if it's extremely dangerous
 to do that, that's where blue screens come from.
 Traditionally, as you know, Leo, bad drivers, video drivers
 or network drivers, where the source of all these blue screens
 will need ring zero access to really blue screen a--
 Correct machine.
 Correct, the monitor.
 But that is the operating system.
 And so AV systems that install their own drivers,
 they're operating at ring zero.
 They're down there.
 And unless the developers are extremely careful,
 this can destabilize the operating system.
 Or it's not just the app that crashes,
 but it takes the whole system down.
 Somewhere, there has to be this ultimate authority
 in the computer, and that's the OS.
 So traditionally, in 32-bit world,
 it was possible to go in and hook these system calls.
 Using this, for example, this system service descriptor
 table.
 Or I talked about the other day, my own memory management
 auditing, which was causing those problems when
 we came to the attention of the New York Times and--
 Oh, yeah, server went kapui.
 We really had a problem, right?
 Well, and the reason was I was hooking all of my own use
 of global memory allocation.
 So doing something really not playing by the rules,
 but if you do it right, it's safe.
 And no one's doubting that it's useful.
 The problem is that there's this tension between what
 Microsoft wants and what developers want.
 Well, Microsoft ended the tension once and for all
 with 64 bits by just simply disallowing this behavior.
 They actually could technically disallow it
 in the 32-bit OS's.
 But that would break like all these things that
 are part of the ecosystem in Windows.
 And Microsoft, as much as they may wish they could,
 they just can't come back and do that retroactively.
 So they've said, OK, from the beginning,
 we're never going to allow this.
 But we are going to compensate by providing
 some alternative means, that is publishing a way
 for these applications written for 64-bit windows
 to gain permission to insert themselves
 into the way that they need to, to be a firewall,
 to be an antivirus, and so forth.
 So that's the story there.
 Yeah.
 And let's hope that they're going forward.
 These things just don't come up anymore.
 [LAUGHS]
 You left.
 Explosive laughter.
 [LAUGHS]
 So Ereta, I absolutely wanted to chime in on Paul Therat's--
 Oh, the copy and paste thing.
 Yes.
 I'm sure there is something broken.
 Oh, this is great.
 I mean, it's been driving me crazy at Paul, too,
 because we just thought it was us.
 Yeah, I know, and that was me, too.
 In fact, it's gotten so bad for me,
 but I'm sometime right-clicking on the blob that I select
 and then choosing copy, because Control-C just
 doesn't seem to grab it all the time.
 And I mean, and I'm sure the app has focused.
 We should back up a little bit for people who aren't aware.
 Yeah, let's explain it.
 Yeah, I was listening to you and Paul
 do Windows Weekly last Thursday.
 And Paul said-- you know, he's sort of scratching his head.
 He said, you know, it's occurred to me
 that maybe there's actually a bug that no one has ever
 detected before, which who knows when it came along,
 but it's like Windows is not reliably
 responding to Control-C for copying whatever is currently
 marked into the Windows clipboard.
 And when he said that, I mean, when I heard him say that,
 I thought, yeah, I mean, it's been something
 that's been really annoying for some length of time.
 And I don't know when they broke it or how they broke it.
 But I mean, it doesn't always not work.
 But it definitely-- and as you said, Leo,
 it's so easy for the whole Windows community to think,
 well, maybe I just--
 It's not-- press the wrong button, or it didn't have focus,
 or I didn't press it hard enough, or I mean, who knows?
 But you know, as enough people are beginning to say, yes,
 that's happening to me too.
 There's this growing momentum behind this idea
 that there's some subtle bug in good old Windows copy
 and paste that isn't-- at least in the copy side--
 that isn't copying.
 In fact, sometimes I'll be pasting what I had on the clipboard
 before because it didn't get replaced by the control C.
 So it seems that pasting is reliable,
 but copying often isn't.
 And who knows why?
 Well, you know, you probably heard him
 say that Microsoft's sending somebody out.
 They want to observe and see.
 They're trying to figure it out.
 They're not saying there's a bug,
 but they want to find out if there is one.
 And enough people report it.
 Now, during the show, I said, yeah, I've had it happen to me.
 And I thought-- but I use Macs most of the time.
 It hadn't happened to me in Macs enough.
 So I've been paying attention, and it has happened to me
 on Macs as well.
 Occasionally, on a Macintosh, you will select text,
 do a command C, which is copy command on the Mac.
 And the Mac highlights briefly the edit menu
 when you do that to say, yeah, I've got a command C.
 So you know that the command C has been issued.
 Nice.
 And you'll go to another field, and there's nothing there.
 You'll paste, and there's nothing there.
 So my sense is-- and I don't know
 how the Windows Paste Board works.
 I know how the Macs does, because I used to write
 more software for the Mac.
 And it stores data on the Paste Board with formatting.
 And sometimes in a variety of ways,
 depending on the application, what the application is saying.
 So the application may say, well, I
 want you to say this is text, RTF, whatever.
 The receiving application would have to understand
 that formatting.
 And my sense is that sometimes there's
 an impedance mismatch between the data that was copied
 and what can be pasted in the target program.
 And so on the Mac, I think that's what's happening.
 But I don't know what's happening on Windows,
 or if it's related.
 The mechanism's the same.
 Yes, it's a very similar mechanism.
 And you are able, for example, you're
 able to copy rich text, for example,
 that's got much more embellishments on the text
 into the Windows Clipboard.
 And then if you paste that into an app which is not rich text
 aware, that is the app only knows plaintext,
 then it strips the rich text out and only does plaintext.
 Is that an OS feature or--
 Yeah, well, it's a feature of the app saying,
 this is what I'm able to accept.
 And then Windows looks at what's on the clipboard
 and gives it the best of what it's able to accept.
 But it could be something like your positing also.
 All sort of mismatch, yeah.
 Yeah, well, we don't know.
 I think I'm glad that you've observed it.
 I have as well.
 And maybe-- Something's wrong.
 You know, my motto on call for help was always,
 it's not your fault.
 Because we assume-- I think it's natural.
 Oh, I'm doing something wrong.
 And it often isn't.
 Well, it was something so fundamental.
 I mean, if we didn't have the clipboard,
 I'm using it constantly on the iPad.
 I'm using it constantly in Windows.
 I mean, it's just so handy for moving things around.
 And it's just, wow, for the idea that it's something wrong
 with that, it's like, OK, who knows when it kind of crept in?
 But it seems to be happening.
 Speaking of my iPad, I did have it hang actually many times.
 But once at a perfect opportunity for me
 to go back to the Apple store--
 Good.
 So I showed it to them.
 They'd never seen one like this before.
 I mean, I watched it escalate through several tiers
 of, quote, "geniuses" at the Apple store.
 They got smarter.
 Yeah, yeah, we kept elevating it up to someone.
 I heard them mumbling, oh, it could be a memory problem.
 And the guy immediately wanted to do like the master hard
 reset.
 I said, whoa, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
 That will fix it.
 And it's going to be fine after you do that for a while.
 So you know, you're not going to be able to make it happen
 again.
 I want you to see right now acknowledge
 that it's not behaving correctly.
 You know, that it's not responding.
 I said, this happens typically several times a day.
 And you know, I'm OK with fixing it.
 But for a while, I thought it was software.
 But a good friend of mine, Leo LaPorte says, no, no, no.
 That should never happen.
 And he's like, you know Leo LaPorte.
 I say, yeah, but that's a long story.
 So did really that help?
 Yeah, well, maybe.
 But a lot of people know you, Leo.
 So I guess so.
 Wow.
 And a lot of people want to say that you're their friend.
 So so I recommend that, by the way, when you go to the Apple
 store, always say, you know, yeah, yeah.
 I could have pulled Waz out, but I thought that's it.
 You might better probably don't need Waz.
 And he would maybe not believe me more.
 So anyway, so I got this thing.
 I'd escalated the problem is that then he goes away
 to try to find a replacement.
 We've decided we're going to replace it.
 And he came back out rather sheepishly and said, OK,
 we're going to give you an exchange.
 And the problem is we don't have any.
 Oh, yeah, that's right.
 We don't even have a hidden secret.
 That's right.
 You know, like, reserve pile anywhere.
 Believe me, there just aren't any.
 And he said, but we've written it up.
 And, you know, we're going to queue in for an exchange.
 And it says, as soon as we get one in the store, you're up.
 And so we'll send you email.
 The Apple Store will send you email saying that your new 3G
 iPad is here.
 Come get it.
 And so I said, that's fine.
 That's all I want.
 I said, it's not such a horrible problem
 that it's keeping me from using the machine.
 It only happens very, very sporadically.
 But definitely repeats.
 And I've seen enough iPads now.
 We've gone through-- we have several in-house.
 And I've set up a couple.
 And I've never seen anything like that.
 So I think absolutely that there is something going on there.
 Yeah, it generally happens when I'm enabling and disabling
 networking, when I'm switching between LAN and 3G,
 turning those on and off.
 I often hang in the control panel,
 right as I power up or power down the 3G.
 And I mean, so I may be doing that more often than most people
 who just sort of leave 3G on everything on.
 I'm big on power conservation, so I'm turning everything off
 that I'm not using.
 So I never touch any of that stuff.
 Yeah.
 So maybe-- well, anyway, I'm happy to have a new one.
 And if it hangs in the same way, then I'll say, OK, it's--
 It's a bug associated with your behavior.
 It'll be exactly.
 It's definitely a bug.
 I mean, nobody should not happen.
 I did tweet an interesting article
 that I ran across by our well-known UI guru, Jacob Nielsen.
 Oh, yeah.
 You know, Jacob Nielsen of course.
 Absolutely.
 He's been on that at night, and I've
 interviewed him many times, great guys.
 He's had a very interesting and rather critical first look
 at the iPad UI that is sort of the problems with it.
 You know, in fact, a lot of things are non-discoverable.
 The-- I did tweet that.
 That's the word.
 That's the word.
 And the short link is I'm using Bitly.
 So B-I-T dot L-Y slash, and then lower case B-B-N-Z-3,
 uppercase M. And so that will take you to this report.
 And then there's a summary there, but also a 97-page detailed
 PDF with his more detailed findings.
 And there's enough there that I would
 urge any iPad developers who are listening
 to read that 97-page detailed report.
 He really brings up a lot of good points
 about the lack of discoverability of--
 Oh, I so agree.
 I so agree.
 Yeah, I've struggled sometimes like to delete something.
 Now I get that horizontal wipe thing.
 And Lee, I wanted to say, I am so glad you mentioned
 swiping up from the exclamation point
 to get an apostrophe.
 Isn't that a huge help?
 Yes.
 And so I wanted to ask you, are there any more like that?
 Yeah.
 [LAUGHTER]
 There are things.
 They're not documented.
 I'm sure they're somewhere.
 But the keyboard-- well, for instance, another handy one.
 So the point of that one is that the main keyboard
 doesn't have an apostrophe on it, which is something
 you use all the time.
 Yeah, I'm big on contractions.
 Yeah.
 But you know, you'll find if you type--
 if you type D-O-N-T, that the automatic correction will
 put an apostrophe in, where it really
 hurts is it's and it's--
 Yes.
 --because it doesn't always do the right thing.
 Because both are legal.
 Yeah.
 So there are a few times where it doesn't put the apostrophe in.
 And I think--
 I can't remember what they are, but you need an apostrophe.
 And you don't want to have to hit two keys to get an apostrophe.
 So if you press your finger on the exclamation mark
 and drag it up, the apostrophe's hiding there.
 And there it is.
 Now, you can-- there's a handy one with a period.
 Well, the double tap is-- Double tap is one.
 And then the other one is that if you want a period--
 a quick period and you-- so you go to the punctuation menu
 and you drag the period up, it will then
 go back to the alphabetic menu.
 So it's a quick way to get out of the punctuation menu
 with a period.
 Oh, nice.
 And I happen to manually switch back.
 I'd love to know more.
 This is why, by the way, we're going to do an iPad show.
 And I did tell you about dragging the shift key onto a letter?
 No.
 Oh, that's how you can get a quick capitalization.
 Onto a word, you mean?
 No, on-- for example, if you wanted capital--
 if you wanted capital A, rather than tapping the capital,
 then tapping the A, you can just drag the shift button
 over to the A and let go of it.
 Oh, look at that.
 Ha.
 That'll save me time typing "twit."
 Yeah, exactly.
 And then, yeah, so that's great.
 And then, the period one is, so you want to put a period in.
 You hit the period one, two, three.
 What was it?
 Oh, now I've forgotten.
 This is-- these come from the iPhone.
 Oh, OK.
 Yeah.
 I mean, that's-- I think that--
 look, there's some UI stuff that Apple's
 assuming everybody knows from the iPhone.
 There's some stuff that's just not discoverable.
 And we talked about the other day sitting in pages
 in portrait landscape mode and saying,
 where is the controls?
 Yeah, until you go into portrait mode, you tilt it.
 You don't get any controls.
 And Jacob actually makes that point.
 He said it's a real problem that the UI is different depending
 upon orientation.
 It's hidden.
 Yeah, and the other thing I'm thinking
 is that some things were clearly done cleverly, I thought,
 for the iPhone form factor, for the iPhone screen size.
 For example, the scroll bar appears transiently only
 when you're actually scrolling and then fades out.
 Well, that's nice, because you don't want it taken up space.
 But now that you've got 10, 24 pixels horizontally
 when you're in landscape, I'm finding,
 as I'm looking at a PDF, I'd like
 to be able to look at the scroll thumb
 to get a sense for where I am in the document.
 No, and there's no feedback, yeah.
 And there's no feedback.
 You've got to start a scroll in order
 to force that scroll bar back on.
 So there's some things that are scaled up,
 and they kept some of the cute things that, arguably,
 they innovated for the iPhone, which, eh, you know,
 I'd rather have like an option to have
 that scroll image stay there instead of fade out.
 So anyway, he really makes, in my opinion,
 he nailed a whole bunch of things.
 So I'm encouraging any developers to read that,
 'cause, I mean, it's funny too, 'cause here's Apple,
 who tends to be all about the fantastic UI,
 and the experience, and all of that,
 and they have draconian control over what apps
 make it onto the iTunes store, or actually,
 which apps make it anywhere onto their iPhone or iPad,
 yet they're not enforcing any of this,
 and developers do have an awful lot of freedom
 to just make stuff up.
 And we're sitting here scratching our head,
 it's like, okay, you know, trying to figure out,
 you know, wrestling with the user interface,
 and some people in response to my tweet said,
 well, yeah, this is how you innovate.
 This is, you know, instead of being locked into a rigid UI,
 new ideas are gonna come up.
 And my response is, well, okay,
 the reason the telephone succeeds is that
 when you're on the phone, you're not fighting with the phone,
 you're talking to the person.
 You know, the user interface disappears into the background,
 and too often, you're actually mean pretty as it is.
 You're seeing the UI, and you're arguing with it,
 trying to get what you want,
 rather than it just really being there
 to facilitate your work.
 So I think he made some great points.
 - Yeah, yeah, it's a little frustrating,
 and it's true that Apple, you know,
 when they first started out with the Macintosh,
 had very strict user guidelines,
 and one of the reasons it was easy to use
 is every application adhered to them,
 and they've definitely wandered.
 - Yeah, well, and as the applications become more advanced,
 and as the screen gets bigger now,
 there's just more room to do wacky things.
 - They really need to get back to some sort of user interface
 guidelines.
 - That would be a good thing.
 - So they publish them, but I think they don't enforce them.
 - They clearly don't enforce them.
 - Well, and it's they who invented
 all these wacky keyboards that you're just talking about,
 so it's not like they've got a clean bill
 of health themselves either.
 - I'm with you.
 - I'm with you.
 - So a week into Twitter,
 - The Twitter experiment,
 I've been, you know, I've got about,
 I'm approaching 5,000 followers, which is neat.
 - You should, we should say, you have two accounts.
 - I have two accounts, yes.
 I have just Gibson research spelled all the way out like that,
 Gibson research, and then which is sort of for corporate,
 you know, no, I won't be talking about Naval lint
 as I described it last week.
 Actually, I haven't talked about anything there.
 - I bet you haven't talked about Naval lint
 even on the other one.
 I'm guessing.
 - No, actually a number of users have written back
 and said, now is that a Naval lint posting?
 (laughing)
 So my personal account is Agile Synapse,
 A-G-I-L-E-S-Y-N-A-P-S-E.
 And anyway, it's been an interesting experience for me.
 I've developed, I'm developing an appreciation
 for what I would call the haiku of 140 characters,
 because sometimes you really do need to struggle
 to fit something into that space.
 One of my favorite tweets shortly after I began read,
 when I'm out walking in the morning after breakfast,
 I see many dogs out walking their people.
 And I think, that's so good for those people.
 (laughing)
 - That's Naval lint.
 (laughing)
 - Exactly.
 - But Leo, how is it you're following 18,000 people?
 - That's a little bit of a mistake,
 and thankfully it's gone back down to 1400,
 which I think is still too many.
 - Wait, but that's under your control?
 - No, you know about the follow bug, right?
 - That happened to you during the follow bug?
 - Oh yeah.
 - Oh my goodness, I thought that was deliberate.
 - Oh no, I don't wanna follow all those people.
 - Okay, oh I see only 1400.
 - It's, well, in my opinion,
 the right number is somewhere in the 100 to 200 range.
 - Really, you only follow two, we gotta get you,
 but that's all right, you know, with Twitter,
 there's a learning curve and you're doing really well,
 Steve, I'm very proud of you.
 And we don't take baby steps.
 But the next step is 'cause you're putting great stuff in there.
 If you follow good people like Agile Synapse,
 you get the same kind of high quality feedback,
 and it can be very valuable.
 You already said you learned something from Twitter,
 and that's from following two people.
 So I think if you gotta choose carefully,
 what I find is I follow readily,
 but I unfollow even more readily.
 So you see a good post from Sony, follow it.
 And then if it's junk after that, you just unfollow 'em.
 It's okay to follow and unfollow.
 Now, you sort of find its own level.
 - The bug was that forced follow bug,
 which I'm sure you saw in the news.
 - Yes, in fact, I have that here in my notes,
 and it was funny too, 'cause someone sent me a tweet
 and said, okay, four days after you join,
 there's a major Twitter security problem.
 'Cause it's like, well, that's...
 - You're following two good people, by the way.
 Patrick and Paul, excellent.
 Just you want more like that,
 and you follow people like mine.
 So what happened was, as you know, the bug was that,
 and I suspect this was in Twitter from day one,
 and just somebody finally found it.
 - Well, it was, you know, actually it,
 they discovered it inadvertently,
 because it was somebody who posted,
 follow P-W-O-R-P-W-O-N.
 - It was except, is the key word.
 - Except, except was the word.
 - And Pones was what he said.
 - Yes, and what he realized was when he saw that,
 he discovered that that person was now following him.
 (laughing)
 And so it actually flowed from the original text command language,
 which in this case didn't require
 a pending follow request in order to accept it.
 - That's the error.
 - Yes, exactly.
 So you could force Bill Gates or Oprah,
 or Ashton Kutcher to follow you,
 just by saying accept at Oprah,
 and all of a sudden Oprah's following you,
 and anything you tweet, Oprah's seeing.
 - Exactly, so it was a way to get those eyeballs.
 - So I don't follow 18,000 people,
 I think you can't effectively follow that many.
 So that means, roughly 18,000 people,
 force followed me.
 - I was just gonna say, during the window,
 that this was known, all those people said,
 follow @leoloport, or accept @leoloport.
 - Accept @leoloport, how funny.
 Wow.
 - Then Twitter, then Twitter zeroed it out.
 So for a while, we all had nobody.
 - And that's what I saw,
 because I was refreshing from time to time,
 watching my follower count going up,
 and then it went to zero.
 My first thought was, oh my God, I've been hacked.
 Somebody's gotten in, but I can't even enter my own password.
 So I don't know how anybody else could.
 And so it's like, okay, well, maybe not.
 And then quickly, the news came up
 about what was going on.
 - Right, right.
 - And how important do you think it is
 to have a shorter handle?
 I mean, I'm now understanding that, for example,
 it would be nice, it would be convenient for people
 if agile synapse wasn't so long,
 because sometimes you're wanting to put multiple mentions
 in a single tweet, and so forth.
 - Yeah, I think that's good.
 It's hard to get a short handle now
 that hundreds of people have used it.
 I also think it's good to use your own name,
 and in your case, this is what we were talking before,
 the show about something called SEO,
 the ability to find the stuff you're looking for on the internet.
 And that's why I use @leoloport,
 because people can find that in order to find agile synapse.
 'Cause, frankly, Twitter's search for people's features
 and very good.
 - Oh, and if you put Steve Gibson in,
 there's already thousands of Steve Gibson.
 - Yeah, it's too late for you to get Steve Gibson.
 So, the gradual synapse is fine.
 I would stay with it.
 It's hard to find a short one.
 It's awesome, somebody's saying in the chatroom,
 but it'd be nice to have something people know how to spell.
 (laughing)
 - Yeah.
 - So, homonyms are confusing.
 - Well, for example, I also grabbed SG is me.
 - That's good. - Which is really short.
 - A lot of people will do the real Steve Gibson,
 or these Steve Gibson.
 - Yeah, but then we're kind of long again.
 - Yeah.
 - I don't think length is that big a deal.
 Most people use automated,
 very few people use the web interface of Twitter.
 Most people use third party tools that do a lot of this for them.
 So, I wouldn't worry too much if they can cut and paste.
 - Okay.
 - Well, I'm having a good time.
 And what I think I'm probably gonna do,
 are you sitting down?
 - Uh-oh, another one.
 - Well, just don't join Facebook.
 - No, no, I'm thinking that probably what I need to do,
 'cause I am having a problem with 140 characters.
 There are sometimes where I'd really like to explain a concept
 in some depth, like--
 - Buzz, baby.
 - Huh?
 - Buzz, Google Buzz.
 - What about a blog?
 - Oh, my God, no, no, I can't.
 (laughing)
 You know, if you did a blog, I would be thrilled.
 And that's exactly, you know,
 they call Twitter microblogging.
 But a lot of bloggers found that they blogged less
 because they were able to post short bursts on Twitter,
 and that kind of satisfied their urge.
 But I think it's interesting,
 you're getting the opposite urge,
 which I wholeheartedly endorse.
 We would love a Steve Gibson blog.
 - I'm running across, for example,
 I've tried to say some things in 140 characters,
 which were misunderstood because--
 - That's right.
 - I just couldn't be expressive enough.
 And so, then I'm getting people who are saying,
 you know, responding, you know, in a way
 that I wish I could have clarified,
 and I would have clearly had I more space.
 And so, maybe the thing to do is to do a blog posting
 and then Twitter the presence of the blog posting.
 - That's exactly kind of what people do.
 'Cause you're already doing that.
 You're putting links to Jacob Nielsen's blog post.
 - Right, and that brings up another problem
 because I'm, you know, me, you can't,
 I mean, I won't click on anybody else's shortcuts,
 so why is anybody clicking on mine?
 And so, I mean, so an advantage would be, for example,
 you know, WordPress allows you to use your own domain,
 so it could be, you know, blog.grc.com
 or Steve.grc.com if I wanted a corporate
 and a personal blog. - Of course.
 - And then just slash and some number, which would be--
 - This is a new trend,
 which is a kind of white label URL shortening.
 There are good URL shortening libraries
 that you can use on almost any platform now
 that will allow you to have,
 but GRC is pretty damn short.
 - I was gonna say, and I've got all my own technology,
 so I don't need any help with that.
 - It'd be an easy thing to make that be your short
 instead of bit.ly, GRC.com is one letter longer.
 - Yep.
 - And I think then we know where we're going.
 I think that's a great idea.
 It is, frankly, the biggest, and Twitter created
 this problem.
 It's the biggest problem that Twitter created,
 which is the need for shortened URLs.
 You know, tiny URL predates Twitter,
 but Twitter made it much more popular.
 - Well, and Leo, I'm getting spam.
 - Oh, it breaks the web.
 It breaks the web.
 The web is not designed for obfuscated URLs.
 It's a bad thing. - Yeah, and so when I'm getting,
 like, really attractive looking women who are talking to me,
 I'm thinking, okay, wait a minute.
 There's something fishy about this.
 - We don't get that very often.
 - And then she's sending me a link to something.
 It's like, oh, wait a minute, you know?
 That's not what I want to click on.
 'Cause we know that, I mean, it's exactly equivalent
 to clicking on a link to email.
 - It's fishing.
 - It's gonna open my browser to a destination I don't,
 I can't even see, I don't know about,
 and that can be all it takes these days
 to take my machine over.
 - That's why you want to only follow trusted people.
 - Yep.
 - And even then, because unfortunately,
 Twitter security sucks.
 People have been hacked many times,
 and not necessarily through any fault of their own.
 So even then, if it's a suspicious message,
 you may want to be careful about what you're clicking on.
 It's a bad model.
 There are a number of third party utilities,
 or third party Twitter tools,
 that will show you what the obfuscated URL,
 the Bitly URL is-- - On your way there.
 - On your way there, and I think those are,
 I prefer those, a good one that I use
 if you want to use a web interface is Brizzly,
 B-R-I-Z-Z-L-Y.com.
 It's a web interface to Twitter.
 Instead of using Twitter's page, you use Brizzly.
 They do things like expand pictures,
 so you don't have to click the link
 to see what the picture is,
 and they unobfuscate Bitly URLs.
 - There's a lot of ways to do that.
 - Geez.
 - Now there's a lot of people listening going,
 "Why did Steve start the Twitter every day?"
 - Oh, God, now we gotta hear about Twitter and iPad.
 - It'll be a good thing.
 - No, you know what, I'm glad you are,
 because there are security issues with Twitter,
 and I think it's a valuable thing for you
 to be casting your BDIs on what's going on there.
 - Yeah, where, what's happening?
 - You know, recently I've deleted my Facebook account
 because of the issues with Facebook.
 It's really serious concern to me.
 And not so much because I live in public,
 so, and I know enough to only post stuff on Facebook
 that potentially everybody will see,
 I don't put anything personal or private on Facebook.
 But it's coercive to use Facebook
 because anybody who wants to interact with me on Facebook
 has to join.
 So by participating in the Facebook ecosystem,
 I'm promoting what I know to be an unsafe privacy concern.
 So I've decided to completely opt it out
 of the Facebook ecosystem.
 I know it in a way that hurts us
 because we use Facebook to promote Twitter, right?
 But I feel uncomfortable coercing my users
 into using Facebook to follow me.
 - I should say one of the things I appreciate about Twitter,
 and for those listeners, I mean, I know there's tens
 of thousands of listeners who are probably where I was
 a week ago, if anyone's curious to see what I've been tweeting,
 you just say twitter.com/adualsynaps.
 - You don't have to join?
 - Right, and they're sorted from most recent
 to least recent, is the history of my tweets.
 - That was strange vocabulary, over the last week.
 - You'll get used to it, over the last week.
 - So anyone's curious, twitter.com/adualsynaps
 and you can see what I've been tweeting.
 - By the way, here's the breezy interface to Twitter,
 very similar, but you see all of your bitlies
 have been expanded.
 So now instead of saying bitly, it says use it.com.
 And so I know exactly where I'm going,
 which is really, really a good thing.
 It also has a few things that are handy for Twitter users.
 For instance, it explains what the trends are.
 So if you see Theresa May as a trend on Twitter,
 you can see why Theresa May as a trend on Twitter.
 That's helpful.
 It's a web-based interface.
 And if you have multiple accounts as you do,
 it allows you to maintain both accounts on a single page.
 So that's just my little plug for them.
 But I'm glad you're looking into security on Twitter.
 Keep doing that, we'll do.
 Okay, I'm ready for the story of the dog
 that ate the laser or whatever that is.
 Okay, well, so it's 1971 and I'm 16 years old,
 a sophomore in high school.
 And we had a real problem with a dog in the neighborhood.
 I don't know if this dog was clinically rabid
 or what its problem was,
 but it was about two blocks away from where I lived.
 And the people who owned this dog
 had sort of an RV trailer or something
 parked in the backyard and an offense,
 which went right up to the sidewalk,
 which contained not only this RV,
 but this unbelievably vicious dog.
 And so the fence had a gate
 where sort of this driveway was right onto the road,
 but this was not like their main garage entrance.
 And the two wings of this gate were pinned just at the bottom,
 so that it was sort of flapping open
 if there was any pressure on it.
 So what would happen was for,
 I don't even know how long this was going on,
 but I mean, it was a serious problem.
 People walking by the sidewalk
 would virtually be attacked
 by this amazingly vicious dog.
 I'm a dog person.
 I grew up with dogs, I love dogs.
 I actually at the time of this going on,
 I had a red had cocker spaniel.
 And so this dog was just unbelievable.
 It would scare the Jesus out of people
 because they'd be walking on the sidewalk
 and this thing would hear them
 and come galloping through the backyard
 and lunge at the top of this gate,
 which looked like it was about to spring open.
 And I mean, the dog, I think it was a German shepherd.
 I can't quite remember the breed now,
 but I mean, it was big.
 And I mean, the owners,
 I don't know what could have been in their mind.
 They must have known this was a problem.
 They must have been getting complaints from people,
 but you know, times were different then.
 You know, dogs were not on leashes.
 Kids were not on leashes.
 I mean, you know, dogs roamed the streets.
 You know, times were, as I said, it was 39 years ago,
 but finally one day,
 as I was coming around my block,
 there was this elderly lady,
 and this all happened in San Mateo up in Northern California,
 which is where I was in junior high in high school.
 And this dog scared this elderly lady so much
 that she tripped and fell off the sidewalk into the street.
 I mean, it was that big a problem.
 It was just unbelievable.
 And so I thought, okay,
 I need to take matters into my own hands.
 This dog needs some training that is not okay
 to rush people and lunge at the gate
 and look like it's about to jump over the gate.
 And the gate looks itself like it's about to give way
 because it was only pinned at the bottom
 and wasn't closed at the top.
 So I thought, in order to train this aberrant canine,
 I need to do something that will shock it,
 something, give it an experience that is negative,
 which is completely outside of its normal daily experience.
 So I thought I need some sort of a sonic,
 loud sonic weapon.
 So Steve, I can see where this is going.
 Oh, this actually, this has unforeseen consequences,
 which is part of the moral of this story.
 The case of the aberrant canine.
 So my parents were divorced at the time
 and my father and his wife living up in the city
 in San Francisco.
 So my sister and I would jump on the train
 Friday afternoons and take it up to San Francisco
 and then the trolleys over to the marina
 on the other side of the city where dad and his wife were.
 And then Saturday mornings was sort of free for all time.
 Basically it was kids get out of the house, go play,
 I mean, as I said, times were different 40 years ago.
 And one of my favorite areas in the city was Mission Street.
 It was a couple blocks out of the city from market.
 That's one of the main, like market streets, the main drag.
 And back then, Mission Street was lined with war surplus stores.
 And of course I think it still is actually.
 Is it still?
 I think there's a bunch of army surplus stores down there.
 Okay.
 And so I was hacking when I was five.
 In fact, on my resume page, there's a picture of me
 that dad took before I was five years old
 in the backyard building something
 with wiring circuits and things.
 I mean, I just had this drive from forever.
 So for me, I could spend hours in these war surplus stores.
 I mean, radar sets, dynamometers,
 all just it was like Nirvana for me.
 But this particular weekend, I was on a mission
 'cause I had to build some sort of a sonic beam weapon
 in order to deal with this dog.
 So, was there no parental supervision at all?
 Not at all.
 No, they'd given up.
 Yeah.
 I beat them to beat them senseless.
 They knew I was a good kid.
 They knew I was not gonna get them into any real trouble.
 Right.
 I mean, the boy scouts of America might disagree with that,
 but that's a story for a different time.
 I mean, most parents, if they heard the phrase,
 sonic weapon, military surplus store and dog,
 might exhibit some concern.
 Yeah, mom just said, okay, whatever.
 I don't know what you're doing.
 Just don't kill yourself.
 So I found the pieces I needed.
 I don't know if it was over one week or several visits,
 but I found this amazing grip from maybe a helicopter,
 trigger handle or something.
 But I mean, it was a gun grip with a switch in it,
 which was like, okay, perfect.
 And I needed a transducer,
 some sort of a high frequency, high power transducer
 and rummaging around in these bins
 with my sister sort of in tow.
 She's two years younger than me.
 So she was 14 and just sort of following big brother around.
 I found some sort of a piezio,
 it was in like a black steel casing,
 a piezoelectric crystal with a pointed silver dome.
 And I said, oh, that looks like the right kind of thing.
 So, you know, none of this cost anything.
 It was 50 cents for this, two bucks for something else.
 And so I got those things.
 I also found a just a perfect photo flash parabolic reflector
 that who's at the widest part,
 it was probably about maybe 10 inches in diameter.
 Sorry, Tom Swift here.
 Oh, this, I mean, this is what happened.
 And so then I needed a body for it.
 And in San Mateo, then on 42nd Avenue
 was like a real electronics store,
 not like a radio shack that was just kind of cheesy.
 This was 42nd Avenue electronics.
 And so I found a steel little mini box to,
 I think it was like two inches by two inches by six
 to be the body of the gun.
 And then set about building this sonic weapon.
 There was a chip at the time that called the 555,
 the NE555.
 I think Signetix innovated this thing.
 It was this incredibly reversible oscillator.
 What year was this?
 1971, oh, this is very early.
 It was a microprocessor, yeah.
 Oh, we didn't have those.
 No, no, no, no.
 I mean, and my first job was,
 it might have been this same year or the year after,
 with this is where I encountered the PDP-8
 for the first time.
 So I built an oscillator.
 And I wanted the frequency to be,
 I mean, I understood that dogs have very sensitive hearing
 and they're able to hear outside of the range that we can.
 You know, like the classic dog whistle,
 where we blow it and the dogs perk up.
 We sort of hear maybe like air blowing
 or maybe we can get a sense of something.
 But on the other hand, I didn't want it to be supersonic
 because I wanted to know if it was working.
 So I wanted to be able to hear it too.
 So I pitched it somewhere like around 15 kilohertz
 as my guess, way high, but still audible to us.
 And I had a, I remember that I had power settings.
 Remember that at this time, you know,
 Star Trek was happening.
 And so of course they had phasers.
 And so I was obviously modeling this on something sort of
 that I'd seen in, you know, in science fiction.
 So I had, I remember a knob on the back
 with it had four positions off just so, you know,
 you wouldn't hit the trigger by mistake.
 And then three power settings where I had three different
 colored dots that I got at the stationary store,
 a green dot, a yellow dot, and a red dot.
 And this thing had three nine volt transistor radio batteries
 in it. So the green dot gave it nine volts
 on the output stage.
 The yellow dot was 18 volts.
 And the red dot was 27 volts.
 All three batteries ganged in series.
 And so I assembled the oscillator,
 built the output, the power amplifier stage.
 It was transformed coupled to this piezoelectric transducer.
 And it worked.
 Then I built this thing together, you know,
 mounted the pistol grip on the bottom of the box,
 the, this perfect photo flash parabolic mirror on the front.
 And then positioned the transducer in the focus
 of the parabolic mirror so that it would, it would work.
 And the, the machine was finished.
 Now back then I was 16.
 I called this the portable dog killer.
 Not worried too much about SEO, I guess.
 Well, or police, and I mean,
 the ASPCA, it wasn't that I wanted to kill this dog,
 certainly not, but the dog would have killed anybody
 who walking by if it could get loose.
 I mean, this thing was out of control.
 So the name was more inspired by the fact
 that the dog was the killer than,
 than that this was going to do any killing.
 I just wanted to teach the pooch that it's not safe
 any longer to go lunging at passers by.
 I mean, literally, I mean, the defense was at the edge
 of the sidewalk.
 And I mean, this was a hazard to public health.
 And frankly, I was probably saving the dog's life,
 or I hoped to, by training it not to do this.
 'Cause sooner or later, something horrible was going to happen.
 And then dog would be put down.
 So I mean, it would just, it would,
 that dog would be destroyed.
 So this thing, oh my God, it really worked.
 Two things I remember about it vividly,
 is I was surprised by how quiet it was off-axis.
 That is, it really did, this parabolic mirror
 really did focus the beam of sound that it produced.
 So that it wasn't, it didn't hurt you at all
 to like be behind it, to be the shooter,
 or even to the side.
 But boy, when you aimed this at yourself,
 it was, it made the weirdest sensation.
 There was, I think it was probably--
 You felt it, you didn't hear it, but you felt it.
 Well, there was like this, yes, no, no,
 you also heard it, I mean, it was pitched down low enough
 that it was, I mean, it was really loud,
 but something about the phasing of it with your ears,
 it made this weird sort of like bone crunching feeling
 in the middle of your head.
 Oh dear.
 It was just strange.
 Anyway, I thought, well, this ought to do with a trick.
 So I, you know, snuck up to the gate the first time.
 And did, you know, here, doggy.
 Or something to the effect.
 And I heard, crumb, crumb, crumb, crumb, rah.
 And as it always did, and I blasted it in the face, point blank.
 Ooh.
 Now, the dog made a--
 No, it's not lethal, we should emphasize.
 It's not lethal, no, and the dog was never hurt.
 I mean, it wouldn't hurt ants, it might make them go around
 in circles, but it wouldn't hurt them.
 The dogs legs collapsed, I mean, they fell out, you know,
 fell to the ground, and then ran as fast
 as it possibly could away.
 So I thought, OK, round one.
 And an hour later, I came back and like, you know,
 nudge the fence a little bit.
 And I heard, crumb, crumb, crumb, rah.
 And I blasted it again.
 And this went on for a couple hours.
 And then I remember--
 We are not recommending this.
 And we will not-- this may not be your first blog post
 is the plans for this device.
 No.
 So I don't want the ASPCA calling me.
 Well, like I said, this ended up working out well for the dog.
 I really believe-- Oh, no.
 Oh, no.
 Because a few hours later, I went up to the fence,
 and the dog didn't attack.
 And I will never forget carefully,
 because I mean, this thing was really-- this
 would have taken your head off, peeking over the fence.
 And there was the dog-- I could see its nose and one eye peering
 fearfully around the corner of the house.
 There's something over there.
 I don't know what it is.
 [LAUGHTER]
 So I was delighted with this.
 And I think it took about three days
 before the first shot of the day wouldn't--
 like the dog was realizing, OK, this
 is just not something I'm going to be able to continue doing.
 This has been its favorite thing, attacking people.
 Who knows?
 I mean, for months or years, I mean,
 it was sort of a known problem in the neighborhood.
 And it was finally when I saw a block away,
 this poor elderly lady literally blown off the sidewalk.
 Oh, dear.
 This is not OK.
 So that was done.
 Now, my buddies at school had sort of been aware of the project.
 I was telling them what I was doing.
 See, if you were to have been such a cool kid,
 I am so cool.
 So they wanted to see this.
 Sure they did.
 So I think, OK, it's show and tell day.
 So I brought the portable dog killer to high school.
 Before first period, the gang had gotten together.
 We had what we call the MRC gang, which
 was the math resource center.
 In other words, this is the nerd group of the high school.
 And the math resource center grew.
 And I don't remember which one of us it was.
 But we had a real problem in the school.
 And I need to explain a little bit
 about the structure of the school, the layout,
 because this comes into play here in a little bit.
 Aragon High School in San Mateo was in the form of it
 like a huge square donut.
 So it was hollow in the middle, and there was an Olympic size
 swimming pool, and some other concrete sort of on a lower
 level.
 And then sloping up from the lower level up
 to the normal class level was this huge green lawn
 with some trees.
 And we called it the quad, because it was a quadrangle.
 And then in the inner perimeter was sort of sidewalk
 and against the wall were all of the student lockers.
 So it was this large square structure.
 One single structure was the entire high school
 with then classes all around the outer perimeter.
 And sort of going down and spoke to halls
 from this center quad.
 Well, we had a problem with seagulls.
 We're not far from the ocean.
 I don't really know where the seagulls came from.
 But they were constantly circling around.
 And no doubt looking for potato chips or unguarded sandwiches
 or scraps of food that students would leave behind.
 And of course, unfortunately, they
 created a big mess just with their own droppings.
 Someone-- and I don't remember now who--
 shot a seagull with the portable dog killer.
 But I'm going to emphasize at this point,
 for those just tuning in, the name dog killer is euphemistic.
 It doesn't kill.
 It's a sonic blast that is harmless.
 Yes, it's annoying.
 Yes, well, what it did was it nearly knocked
 the seagulls out of the sky.
 Now, we're 16 years old.
 Pong won't be invented for another year.
 No, until 1972.
 We had no video games.
 Until now, we didn't have any kind of a beam weapon.
 We saw it on Star Trek, of course.
 Now we had one, and it shot birds that didn't kill them.
 But it definitely surprised them.
 And this was the best thing that had ever happened to us.
 Because it was like something was reacting to this.
 It was fantastic.
 A non-lethal bird stunner.
 Yes, it was fantastic.
 And so Aragon High School was performing
 an experiment in the district.
 This was the second year of what was called flexible scheduling,
 more like college scheduling.
 Instead of all students being in classes,
 periods one through seven, we had blocks of free time
 scattered throughout the day, different times
 and different days of the week.
 Santa Cruz High did that too when I was there at the same time.
 And so what happened--
 Very trendy.
 --very trendy, and we loved it.
 What happened was that meant that various of us in the gang
 had free time in different slots.
 So then it became a matter of handing the gun from one
 to the other.
 And basically, we would, in small groups
 that were free during that period, lay on the grass,
 having target practice, shooting seagulls, which
 was just fantastic.
 Each seagull reacted a little differently.
 But there is definitely a reaction.
 I mean, you knew when you got a shot off.
 And so that's the way we spent the day.
 It was just we were having the time of our life.
 So at this time, I was creating curriculum
 for the third year of electronics.
 The high school had electronics one and two,
 which was the first two semesters of the first year,
 which taught basic electrical theory using tubes,
 unfortunately.
 And the professor, Harold Farron, was a neat guy,
 old, gnarly, ex-navy guy.
 And tubes was what he knew.
 For him, transistors was a big deal.
 He wasn't quite sure about them.
 That was electronics three and four
 in the second year of electronics.
 And of course, this was-- I felt like I died and gone
 to heaven to actually be in school taking electronics.
 I mean, here I already knew electronics.
 I had force fed myself this lead years before.
 But now I was actually getting credit for it
 and had a lot of enthusiasm for it.
 And at one point, I said to him, I
 guess in my second year, I mean that year, my sophomore year,
 I said, Mr. Farron, what about digital electronics?
 Why-- it's nice that we learned about tubes last year,
 and transistors are good, but the future is digital.
 And he said, well, I don't know digital.
 And I said, well, it's really not that hard.
 And he said, well, why don't you teach it?
 Wow.
 And so during my sophomore year, I
 created an entire curriculum for third-year electronics, which
 we created there.
 And I heard years later that it had gone district-wide
 and was being taught throughout the whole cemetery
 of high school districts.
 That's so neat.
 So the point of this is that after school,
 I would go into the electronics lab
 and work on this stuff.
 And I had free rein.
 I'd come to the attention of the administration very early on.
 I think it might have been the incident with the shock machine.
 I'm not quite sure what the first shock machine.
 Oh, yeah, well, that's another story.
 But Mr. Farron knew that he could trust me.
 And he would leave and leave the doors locked, and my requirement
 was just-- oh, yeah, I mean, I was trusted just
 to make sure that I'd pulled the door behind me.
 So this afternoon of the sonic beam weapon,
 I was probably leaving around 430.
 And so the school was completely deserted.
 Nobody there.
 I mean, literally, I was completely empty.
 The whole quad was empty.
 I went to my locker, got the books that I needed,
 got the portable dog killer out of the locker,
 which where I had stowed it at the end of seventh period.
 And to this day, I don't know what I was thinking.
 Oh, no.
 Because I saw on the far other side of the quad, Mr. Archibald,
 the assistant principal.
 And so there was good news where I was.
 We had these big containers for the garbage
 and big cement planters.
 And so I crouched down behind one of these cement garbage
 can containers and shot Mr. Archibald with the portable dog
 killer.
 Oh, dear.
 Now, I mean, it was a long way away, he was, and I was hidden.
 What completely jarred me was his reaction.
 You would think that a regular person being shot
 at great distance by a sonic beam weapon
 would be a little confused.
 They'd look around kind of like look up.
 Maybe it's like, what is going on?
 Not Mr. Archibald.
 Keeps in.
 No, he couldn't see me.
 So I mean, I was hidden.
 I was undercover.
 He spun around.
 And that's what took my breath away.
 It's like, oh my god, I just--
 I didn't expect a reaction like that at all.
 And he stood there motionless, trying
 to take in the entire escape of this huge high school
 quad.
 And he was motionless.
 And he was looking for anything.
 And so I'm thinking, oh my god.
 So I was probably starting to shake at this point,
 but I kept my cover.
 And he stood there, slowly looking from side to side.
 And then, you know, he appeared to give up.
 And he turned back around and continued
 walking in the direction he had been before.
 And I've gotten word that a child is using his imagination.
 And I've come to put a stop to it.
 Principal Skinner on his way.
 So I stood up and started to get the heck out of the quad.
 But I kept one eye on him, of course,
 because he was the danger.
 Well, he faked me out.
 He spun around again and saw me and pointed at me--
 I saw that.
 --pointed at me and then beckoned with his other hand.
 Oh, dear.
 So he's smart.
 How do you know?
 This is-- well, you know--
 I guess you were well-known by now.
 Well, yeah, I was.
 And so we met about halfway in front of the office wing.
 And I was doing everything I could with my body language
 to have this gun be as inconspicuous as possible.
 It had this parabolic thing.
 Oh, it wasn't inconspicuous at all.
 I mean, it was clearly a gun.
 A ray gun.
 It was a ray gun.
 That's the way I designed it.
 With a power control knob on the back, with green, yellow,
 and red, and a big reflector out the front.
 So it was dangling at my side as sort of as inconspicuously
 as possible.
 So we approached.
 And he looked at me and he said, Stephen.
 And I said, oh, Mr. Archibald.
 And he looked down at it and then back at me and said,
 what is that?
 Oh, boy.
 And I said, well, it's a sonic beam gun.
 I wasn't going to use its real name.
 And he said, I see.
 I see.
 And did you just shoot me with it?
 And I said, yes, sir, I did.
 Well, you're very honest, Steve.
 That's good.
 Oh, yeah, I'm, you know.
 And I mean, it wasn't much of a choice of answer.
 No, I mean, no, I shoot.
 You know, sir, no, oh, this point.
 And so he said, and where did you get that?
 And I said, I built it.
 He designed it.
 Wow.
 I said, yes.
 And he said, why?
 So I gave an abbreviated version of the dog story
 about training this dog, just not attack people any longer
 that were walking by on the sidewalk.
 And he said, and was that successful?
 I said, it was.
 And he said, and you brought it to school this morning.
 I said, uh-huh.
 And he said, and were you shooting it all day long?
 And I said, well, it turns out that it also shoots seagulls
 and pretty much knocks them out of the sky.
 And he said, I see.
 And so I said, my friends, and he said the MRC gang.
 I said, oh, you know about that?
 He says, I know everything.
 Yeah.
 And I said, well, yeah, we were sort of handing it
 around during our various free periods for target practice.
 And he said, and I said, I didn't seem to be a problem.
 He said, oh, we'll be talking about problems in a minute.
 And he said, we began getting phone calls in the morning.
 Oh, dear.
 From teachers all over the school, oh, dear,
 who were reporting high frequency sounds.
 They didn't know what was wrong.
 They thought maybe the heater system had caught on the blink.
 And I said, oh, and he said--
 So we called the district engineers.
 Oh, boy.
 And they came out, and they heard these sounds too.
 We heard them in the office wing as well.
 Everyone was hearing them.
 And they thought maybe it was the ultrasonic alarm
 system that protects the school, had gone on the fritz.
 And of course, we couldn't close down the school
 with an alarm system that wasn't functional.
 Because there'd be all kinds of consequences for that.
 So they worked on the alarm system,
 trying to figure out if it had gone wonky somehow.
 So now we know what it was.
 It was you and your sonic beam weapon.
 He said, I guess I'm glad you shot me,
 because the mystery is solved.
 He said, now, I want you to take that home,
 and I don't want to ever see it or hear it again.
 I'm amazed he did not confiscate it.
 He did not.
 Well, he knew me.
 I mean, you know, I was--
 You were a good kid.
 I was a good kid.
 I'm sure that I'm sure that the office
 knew I had permission even to stay in the electronics lab
 after hours and all that, because I mean,
 Farron was very much by the book being ex-navy.
 He was not liked by most students who thought it was way too rigid.
 I just thought it was great.
 So I took the gun home, put her on the shelf.
 My friends and I were all very disappointed.
 They were all anticipating many more days of target practice.
 Although, to be fair, I had to say
 that by the end of the day, there really
 weren't so many seagulls any longer circling around overhead.
 Training them too, I guess.
 Well, I think they decided this is not where we want to be.
 No.
 So that's the story of the portable dog killer.
 Steve would a great story.
 And when I was thinking about this,
 I was thinking about all the email
 that I've received during the podcast from young listeners who
 wonder how to get going, how to get started, what would I recommend?
 How do they differentiate themselves?
 And the second employee at Gibson Research Corporation,
 one of the most brilliant engineer programmers
 I've ever known, a guy named Steve Rank,
 went on to found a couple gaming companies.
 He has one now called Specular Entertainment.
 His first one was Swing and Apes, which he sold to Blizzard.
 And what stood out in my mind about Steve actually
 is really that, like me, he was building things
 from the beginning.
 Nothing could stop him from building things.
 He was involved.
 I heard about all the projects that he had built,
 much as I had as a kid.
 It's a good sign, isn't it?
 Well, that's my point.
 Yes.
 Is clearly, there were incredible unintended consequences
 from my creating this gun to train
 this incredibly vicious, ferocious dog.
 But that's what happens when you build things.
 Nothing happens if you're sitting behind a screen shooting
 aliens in a video game.
 It doesn't happen.
 All the discoveries that have been made
 have been made by people experimenting.
 Do something.
 You know, Tesla was building all kinds of things.
 And you can't know what you're going to learn
 until you're confronted by it.
 You've got problems.
 There's something happens you don't expect.
 I mean, it's just-- it's amazing how opportunity rich
 the environment is.
 But if you're not in it, you're not
 going to get the opportunity.
 And so what I would encourage people to do--
 I mean, Steve and I are still good friends.
 We get together every so often.
 And we sort of reminisce about the projects that we built.
 And think to each other, can you imagine
 being a 10-year-old now with all the stuff there is?
 I mean, there's these things-- programmable gator rays,
 which are just amazingly powerful,
 where you can use software to program logic
 like softly in this.
 I mean, I don't know what I would--
 I mean, there just isn't enough hours in the day
 as it is for me.
 But if I were a 10-year-old or 12-year-old or 15-year-old,
 I would say, turn off the video game.
 That's doing nothing.
 Build something, build anything.
 I mean, the feedback you get, the fun,
 but mostly the discovery.
 You will end up discovering things that you cannot predict.
 You cannot know about.
 That's the nature of it.
 But I just think that's something
 that our pasteurized world has sort of lost a little bit of.
 I mean, this sounds like a wild story.
 I guess it was probably a little wild in 1971,
 but probably not as wild as it sounds today.
 Today, the Department of Homeland Security
 would be coming to your door.
 Exactly.
 Yeah, so--
 But it's a very good--
 I even have in a very small way a similar story.
 And it did start for me with video games.
 I got an Atari 2600.
 But what the game did is made me think, oh,
 I want to know how this works.
 And it doesn't have to be a physical thing you're building.
 It's easy to build software.
 Oh, yes.
 In fact, that's where I've switched to.
 Yeah.
 Yes.
 And everybody has an opportunity now.
 For free, there's so many great choices.
 There's Alice.org, a great way to start
 littler kids on object-oriented programming.
 And there's so many things out there.
 Just, yeah, I think.
 But I think there has to be that little seed in your brain,
 which you obviously have, Steve obviously has, where you
 get inspired as I want to make something.
 And I think there will always be people doing that.
 I think it's a matter of empowerment.
 I mean, now, I will say that my dad did encourage me.
 I mean, one of the things that I did when I was five,
 we would go down to the docks in Oakland
 and buy a hunk of electronic gear coming off
 of the naval ships down there.
 And they hung it on a fish hook, a big huge fish hook,
 and you paid for it by the pound.
 And the car looked like its suspension
 had gone broke in the back because this thing was in the trunk.
 And we'd bring it home, and he'd sit in the middle of the garage,
 and he'd say, OK, go at it.
 I mean, there was nothing I wanted to do more than tear
 that thing apart.
 And he says that he knew that I was internalizing
 the work of the country's best engineers
 as I was taking this apart.
 And he thought that someday I would start
 putting things back together again.
 And it turned out that was sort of the path I took.
 So there has to be, I think, some encouragement.
 But as you said, also some spark.
 And nothing could stop me from this kind of inquiry.
 And so I would just encourage people
 to get involved, to do something proactive,
 something creative, not just passive.
 Because passive, nothing's going to happen that way.
 I think that it's probably the case
 that there are people who just don't have that spark.
 And they're going to--
 look, we need people to flip burgers.
 And not everyone's going to be a maker.
 But boy, if you see that spark in a kid,
 encourage it.
 Don't discourage it.
 It's a great lesson.
 And you know what? Thank goodness that Vice Principal
 Archibald didn't beat you up over this.
 He knew he sensed that this was something
 that was appropriate for you to do.
 He made sure you didn't do it at the school.
 Yes.
 And he understood it was completely unforeseen.
 There was no way I could know--
 or that, oh, I forgot to tell you one thing.
 He said, as I was leaving with the gun and breathing
 a big sigh of relief, he said, oh, there's one thing, Steve.
 I said, yes, sir.
 He said, next time something appears to go wrong
 with the high school, we're going to track you down first.
 We're calling you.
 I think that's why.
 Just because I mean, he went through so much trouble.
 I mean, bringing people, engineers out from the district,
 crawling around to figure out what had gone wrong with the heaters
 and then with the ultrasonic alarm.
 So I mean, I don't like to think about the expense
 that they went through.
 But he realized that they just said, Steve, are you
 doing anything strange today?
 What are you up to there, Mr. G?
 I think that's just a wonderful story.
 And I would have to ask, I don't suppose you still
 have the portable dog killer.
 I have a lot of my paraphernalia.
 I did do helium neon laser guns later in life.
 And I have some of those.
 But I don't know what happened to this.
 I went to Berkeley and then moved to Southern California.
 And at one point, I actually had a lab upstairs
 in San Mateo.
 That's where this was built, was in the lab,
 as they put it when I was called for dinner, which
 is where I built this.
 So and it was just sort of an extra room that I commandeered.
 I said, OK, this is mine.
 This is my space.
 I need a lab.
 So at one point, there was a purging of all the stuff
 I left behind.
 I think that happened.
 I mean, I can see it clearly in my mind.
 And of course, many people were witness to all this craziness.
 And my life was a series of wacky adventures like that.
 We'll share one every so often.
 I love that spirit.
 And you know, we celebrate that spirit today with the maker.
 Make magazine, the maker fairs.
 And there is this notion about making, which is focused,
 I think, on physical making, which is a great thing.
 But it's fine to make with software.
 In fact, more than ever, we need software.
 And that's perfectly appropriate.
 And I think it's causing nothing.
 Costing nothing.
 You don't get your hands dirty.
 And most of the time, the principal
 doesn't confiscate your program.
 And frankly, when people have asked me--
 and I've said this before on this show--
 how do I learn this language?
 How do I learn this?
 Or how do I learn that?
 My answer is solve a problem with it.
 Yes.
 That is, you just can't sit there.
 I mean, reading a book about a language is dry.
 So come up with something you want to do.
 And make yourself do it in that language.
 I mean, there's no hurry, there's no deadline,
 doesn't have to be tomorrow.
 Just start.
 And when you start, the rest will flow.
 Such a great moral.
 I hope that everybody listening to this show
 is probably in that category of a maker and doer.
 And I mean, you wouldn't be listening to the show
 if you didn't have that spark.
 But it's good for us to remember, spread it around,
 let others get involved.
 We're going to-- I want to sponsor at my kids' high school
 a first team, the robotics competition this fall.
 Because that's an example of-- you know, it's truth is,
 it's better if the kid goes off and does it on his own
 and gets in trouble like you did.
 But failing that, at least if there's
 some sort of institutional encouragement to do that
 and some opportunity to do that, that's a good get you started.
 Well, and it does, frankly, it does fit today's world more
 than building sonic beam weapons this today's world.
 Yes.
 So great show.
 Thank you, Steve.
 I really appreciate it.
 It's always a pleasure, and this was a good one.
 I'm glad you took a little time.
 I don't know how much Twitter had to do with this,
 but I'm glad that you were inspired.
 I look forward to the blog.
 I presume it'll be at your website, grc.com.
 Yep, it will be.
 I'll announce it on the show and certainly
 through the followers who are following me on Twitter.
 And I'll have it up here probably by next week.
 And again, it was the-- I want to remind people.
 It was the 50th today, well, not the day this week,
 the 16th, the 50th anniversary of the invention of a laser.
 Isn't that true?
 And so you can see what the tie in was.
 That's what sort of got me thinking
 about my own beam weapon and the story that it begat.
 Isn't that great?
 Steve, thank you so much.
 Well, I hope you enjoyed this trip down memory lane.
 This show originally was secured in our 248.
 It aired May 13, 2010.
 And as far as I know, no portable dog killers
 have been implemented in the intervening years.
 I do know this, no dog was harmed,
 was ever harmed by the portable dog killing.
 I hope you took it in the spirit, it's intended.
 And I hope you had a wonderful holiday.
 And I look forward to seeing you in the brand new year.
 We have a brand new security now.
 Ready to go, January 3rd.
 I hope you'll join us, 130 Pacific, 430 PM Eastern time,
 2130 UTC, or download it at twit.tv/s.
 And on behalf of Steve Gibson, I'm Leo LaPorte.
 I hope you had a great holiday.
 Here's to a great 27.
 See you.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
