 "Netcasts you love from people you trust."
 "This is Twit."
 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by AOL Radio at aol.com/podcasting.
 This is Security Now with Steve Gibson, Episode 66 for November 16th, 2006.
 Vista Security.
 Security Now is brought to you by Astarro, makers of the Astarro Security Gateway on the web
 at www.astarro.com and by Dell.
 For this week's specials, visit twit.tv/dell.
 It's time to talk security with our favorite security guru, the man who keeps us all safe
 and sound.
 Last week we were not only talking about computer security, but security worldwide.
 We're talking about more homeland security.
 Steve Gibson, it's good to have you back on Security Now.
 How's your week been?
 It's really been good, Leo.
 I'm in Canada right now where it's freezing.
 I want to come home to California.
 Well, I'm going to be up there joining you in December, so I guess.
 Oh, good timing.
 I should be much warmer then.
 You're nut.
 All right.
 What, Leo?
 Yeah, what can we talk about today?
 What's the...
 Since we last talked, I have installed Vista.
 Oh, good.
 I decided, okay, it was at RC2 and it's probably RTM by the time people are hearing this because
 it was supposed to be around...
 The last I heard was November 8th.
 It did, in fact, the last...I just heard...now it's an unconfirmed rumor, but I heard a rumor
 that it, in fact, was certified and went to master about a week ago, so it's official.
 I hope they made some changes to it.
 You're using...
 What builder are you using?
 Okay.
 I'm using the RC2 build.
 I think it was like 5766 or something.
 Okay.
 It was a late build and all kinds of things crash.
 In fact, it was behaving so badly that I thought, okay, maybe this is a system problem.
 So I ran the memtest86 for like four days, never had a single problem, and Windows XP
 runs on this system like a bad out of hell.
 I mean, I've got to say, okay, this is a 3.06 gigahertz, hyper-threaded Pentium 4.
 It's got two gigs of RAM, and because I was going to run Vista, I bought a brand new
 NVIDIA.
 It's the GeForce 7600 GS board.
 It's one with a blower on it, and you got to give it a hard drive connector.
 You can't get...it wants so much power that the bus won't power.
 You plug hard drive connectors into the edge of the back edge of the card in order to get
 this thing powered up, but Leo, Vista is slow.
 Really?
 Oh, and in fact, I mean, I've got the glass UI, which, okay, you know, I mean, it's attractive,
 but not at the expense of all this performance.
 I mean, frankly, I'm...the more I look at the Mac, the more impressed I am with this nice
 brushed aluminum look that, you know, the first thing I did with Vista, I mean...
 I kind of like how Vista looks.
 You don't like the new, the new aero glass interface?
 It'll be interesting to see what people think.
 It's not that I don't like it.
 It's that you...I think they could have done something better with all these display and
 processor cycles that they are apparently consuming.
 Now, I turned it off just to see if I could get the display performance up, because I
 mean, really, it is...it is just dog-slow, and also, even with this card, they have something
 that they call the Vista experience rating, which, you know, where it ranks your processor,
 your display card, your RAM, your hard drive speed, and other stuff.
 Basically, what they're doing is they're saying, "It's not our fault."
 They're...
 You know...
 You don't have enough hardware.
 It's giving me a rating of two for this display, for my graphics performance.
 Out of what?
 Out of what's the time?
 Out of five, because the hard drive by getting a 4.9, the processor, I get a 4.2, and everything
 else is in the 4-point-something, but I get a 2 with this screaming, you know, G4-7600.
 It's like, "Okay, what do you want from me?
 How can I get more?"
 I mean, it's a 512 megabyte graphics card.
 It's just, I mean, but Leo, grabbing the lower right corner and stretching a window out,
 it just, like, it refreshes so slowly, and I mean, this is a fast machine that I'm using
 it on.
 You know, three gigahertz P4 with two gigs of RAM.
 It's like, "Okay, well, I hope this thing works."
 I mean, I just...
 I think what you're using is fairly close, but again, it's not the final version.
 The final build is, I think, build 6,000, although it's pretty close to what you've
 got.
 And, in fact, all of Sunday, well, it didn't take all of Sunday, but I decided, "Okay,
 I've got to find out what you and Paul are talking about, so I downloaded the four episodes
 so far of Windows Weekly, of course, with Paul Therat, and I got a kick out of the fact
 that it's somewhere in the fourth one, he said, "You guys, we're sort of talking about
 Vista and security a little bit," and he said, "Do I remember you saying that Steve Gibson
 is still using Windows 2000?"
 Yes.
 It's like, "Yes, and I'll be moving to XP soon."
 I'm not right away.
 No, I mean, I'm getting ready to move to XP.
 It's stable enough now, it's mature enough.
 Okay, well, that should give you some idea.
 It's hard to judge security, though, right, because, well, frankly, nobody's attacking
 you yet.
 Well, actually, there are, I want to talk about today, the architectural things Microsoft
 has done in the name of security.
 Now we've already talked about, we had a prior episode about Vista's Virgin Stack, I think
 we called it, and I was shuttering over the idea that Microsoft is bragging about the
 fact that they rewrote the networking from scratch and that semantics, early pokings
 at it, discovered many problems that were critical security vulnerabilities that were
 fixed decades ago in early Unix stacks that are all these problems are back again.
 So it's like, "Oh, boy, this is typical.
 This is not an architectural thing.
 This is a brand new code that just hasn't had the debris pounded out of it yet.
 And it's why I'm now five years late getting ready to move to XP, because it's had the
 debris pounded out of it.
 And I mean, even XP was a direct descendant of Windows 2000, so it had the advantage
 of Windows 2000's maturity.
 So I gather what you're saying is if you want real security, use XP.
 Okay, we're going to draw some conclusions once I've laid enough foundation.
 But I'll tell people, the bottom line is don't buy any more 32-bit systems.
 Oh, interesting.
 Oh, interesting.
 That's pretty for me to say that, but I'm going to explain why, because what Microsoft
 has had to do is in order to make the next move forward in security, they've had to make
 a conscious decision to break major things that have always been done in the past.
 This was the right decision to make.
 I fully endorse it, but it means that the 32-bit platform is going to sail on mostly unchanged,
 and only the 64-bit platform will be secure and will receive the benefit of these security
 design changes Microsoft has chosen to make.
 Interesting.
 So, for people who are security conscious, you're hearing it here, there is a huge difference
 in Vista's 64-bit security that is security on a 64-bit platform as opposed to anything
 Microsoft is able to offer and chosen to offer on the 32-bit platform.
 Next stepping back from that, I will again say, "Boy, any hardware you have that can
 run Vista will run XP like a bad out of hell."
 I mean, the system I'm using where Vista is just painfully slow, just on a UI standpoint.
 I mean, Leo, moving a window around pegs the processor, it goes to 100%, just moving
 a window around.
 It's like, "Okay, what are they doing?
 That's nuts."
 Well, again, you're using beta code, maybe there is, in fact, often the case with beta
 code, as you know, there's debugging code still in there and other stuff.
 Pre-release code.
 I mean, they were calling it RC2, but as I learned from listening to you and Paul, and
 I would encourage our listeners to start, you know, if they're interested in Vista,
 certainly add Windows Weekly, your Windows podcast will with Paul Thorett to their podcast
 lineup.
 Thank you.
 And I'm telling people who listen to Windows Weekly to listen to you, because basically
 both of these shows are covering Vista from different angles.
 I mean, Paul's not a security expert, but he certainly talks about a lot about, you
 know, things to keep in mind with XP.
 I think Paul would actually be very interested to hear what you have to say, because truthfully,
 we haven't recommended 64-bit Windows, either XP or Vista, for the very reason you just
 quoted it breaks a lot of things, including drivers, antiviruses, and security software.
 Yep.
 Yep.
 Now.
 Okay.
 So, so stepping back from that, I just want to say again, I'm, I, I've got Vista installed.
 I, I really do.
 I mean, it's a pretty OS.
 It's got a nice sort of flat look.
 I'm not that impressed with the, with the translucent, you know, window headers that
 blur what's behind them is like, okay, gee whiz, you know, whoopee doo.
 Yeah.
 And then you can turn that off.
 And I did, and I did get a more, I've got better graphics performance that way.
 Yeah.
 So, so I've got, I've, I've created two users, one, one, one, one where I've bolted down
 the UI as much as possible, but even so, you know, it's really slow.
 So yes, I'm hoping what they're shipping is going to be faster, although notice that
 RC2 was not much earlier than the RTM.
 I mean, what?
 It was like two weeks.
 Right.
 So they're, it's not like this, like, the one I'm using was from six months ago.
 No, no, no.
 It was, it was from late October.
 So, you know, I, again, I'm, you know, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm the reverse of an early adopter
 because yes, I'm, it's still on 2000 and I'll be moving to XP, you know, one of these days.
 But, okay, so, um, uh, and I, I have to say also that IE has crashed anytime I log out
 of the, of the system, it crashes, it just drops right out to the BIOS and reboots.
 I mean, I've gotten a whole bunch of crashes of this code, which, you know, was supposedly
 pretty mature.
 And this is on a system.
 And as far as I can tell, it's just working perfectly.
 So, you know, I'm not blending my hardware.
 Um, I also want to mention before I forget that I have been using parallels on the Mac,
 uh, with an XP install and I am really impressed.
 I'm becoming more and more impressed with parallels the more I use it.
 You know, we talked about this before and how Mark Thompson was saying that, that, you
 know, he thought parallels performance even on a PC on a standard Windows host platform
 far exceeded what VM Ware was doing.
 So really I think VM Ware's advantage is the stuff they've got locked up in patents.
 We, you know, all of the incremental snapshots and rollbacks and things which they clearly
 have a patent on and which no other VM application is able to do because of infringement against
 that.
 You know, but in just in terms of, of running Windows in a, on a Mac, um, it, it, as far
 as I can tell, it runs absolutely full speed.
 I don't see any difference.
 However, I was unable to install the RC to a Vista.
 Apparently it's still very finicky RC one of Vista would install under parallels, but
 only after the parallels guys like fixed it so that it would work.
 And I was getting blue screens when I'm, oh, that reminds me, Leo, the, uh, Vista has removed
 the blue screen by turning it into a dialogue instead of a, it's still a blue screen of
 death.
 And it even says blue screen.
 They, they, they like kept the term.
 It pops up a dialogue and in there in the dialogue text, it says blue screen.
 You've just had a blue screen.
 It's like, uh, whoa, yeah, that's like when Apple took out the error 11 by just renaming
 it.
 We don't have to fix this off or just take out the error message because we don't want
 to see that anymore.
 No, we don't want to see that.
 Yeah.
 So anyway, I like the, I like the Vista UI.
 Um, I'm, I like the decisions that Microsoft has made from a policy standpoint.
 I'm scared of what they've done, recoding, huge network facing, you know, internet facing
 aspects of Vista, we don't even know about the whole peer to peer thing yet.
 But so let's talk about what Microsoft has deliberately done in terms of Vista security.
 You know, what, what's new?
 Um, we saw in the, in the, uh, the release of service pack two with XP, these, the, the
 so-called window security center, which sort of continuously monitors your security related
 things like your firewall, automatic updates and antivirus that, that aspect has been expanded
 in Vista to include Windows Defender, which is Microsoft's malware scanner.
 And I've got to say, you know, as you and I have said before, you know, we don't run
 anti spyware stuff.
 I discovered from the log that this Vista system was running the Windows Defender scan in the
 wee hours of the morning on the days that I left it on, um, all by itself.
 So it was performing this sort of scan and it's, again, it's pretty nice to have a, a
 scan built into Windows, not some third party add on, which is sinking its tendrils down
 deep into the kernel and who knows what, slowing things down and just, you know, basically
 having a, a problem coexisting with everything else, Windows doing.
 So I mean, I'm, I imagine that, you know, 10 years from now, when I actually upgrade
 to using Vista myself, uh, that I'll be very happy just using the built in malware scanner
 that, that Vista has, yeah, I've been pretty happy with it.
 Um, of course you and I both know what to do, not to get the malware in the first place.
 So we're not really taxing this thing.
 So we have an, exactly.
 We have not been having that problem.
 Certainly though, users who, who, who are, who have not been doing anything proactive
 like that security wise and who are picking up malware that Microsoft knows about.
 I mean, this thing updates itself continuously.
 So it's being kept a, a, a prized of the latest problems, you know, this is going to be really
 helping people.
 So, so I think this is a very, you know, proactive, major, good thing.
 I mean, a perfect example is that, that even though personal firewalls existed way before
 Windows XP service pack two, even in the era of personal firewalls, we were getting all
 those worm wars, code red and Nimda blaster because people had them turned off or they
 had been subverted or they just weren't using them as soon as service pack two happened,
 where the firewall was part of the OS and turned on by default, all of that problem went away.
 Similarly, as soon as Vista happens with Windows Defender built in able to and doing automatic
 background updates and scanning for the user in the background, I think we're going to
 see a sea change in the whole spyware malware problem.
 I mean, I think it's going to make a huge difference for this thing to be built in to
 every version of, I mean, every version and copy of Windows that ships.
 So I know I take my hat off to Microsoft.
 Certainly the people who are competing with Microsoft in this space, in this application
 space are not happy about this, but they had many years of, you know, of lots of profit
 and a good long run and it really is a pro user thing that Microsoft is doing much as
 adding an always on firewall to the OS has been a very pro user thing.
 Right.
 Right.
 So one of the other things that Microsoft has done is Vista incorporates something called
 BitLocker.
 It's sort of, I like sort of the double entendre of that.
 It's locking your bits and it's also storage.
 It's a locker that stores your bits.
 Yeah, it is built in, it is built in whole volume encryption that can work two ways.
 If you've got a TPM, a trusted platform module built into your system, you know, and we've
 talked about TPM before, how it's sort of controversial because, you know, from a privacy
 standpoint, basically what TPM does is it's pre boot technology that was going to solve
 a lot of problems and in this case, the TPM system is able to authenticate you to the
 operating system and enable on the fly decryption of the main OS volume.
 Now BitLocker requires its own partition because it has to run prior to installing on the fly
 decryption, but this is very much like built in true crypt sort of technology where everything
 written to the drive is encrypted on the fly.
 Everything read from it is decrypted on the fly.
 The reason again that this is a good thing is that because it's there by default and
 from Microsoft and present, it will probably see more use.
 The great use of course is on laptop systems and we've talked about this often, the problem
 of them being stolen.
 Now the problem of course is systems that don't have the TPM, the trusted platform module
 installed by, you know, present in their system, they need to fall back to a secondary but
 still sort of elegant solution and that is the decryption key can be stored on a USB,
 a small USB drive and you must then, for example, on a laptop that was set up on a main desktop,
 you must have that USB key installed and your BIOS needs to be able to access that USB key
 at boot time.
 So there are some requirements but most motherboards and laptops made in the last few years have
 been able to boot from USB and access the USB device in the BIOS and not needing, you
 know, fancy Windows drivers in order to do that.
 So essentially your USB dongle becomes your key and you boot your laptop with the key
 in place and Windows will perform on this whole BitLocker technology will cause Windows to
 perform on-the-fly decryption for you and, you know, you're good to go and this of course
 can also be used with a desktop because it requires two partitions.
 It's not as easy to set up as it could be but you can imagine that in the short term,
 maybe from the beginning laptops and new desktop systems shipped from OEMs will be partitioned
 to be BitLocker compatible in this fashion.
 So I would imagine that they should work without any trouble.
 So it is nice on-the-fly decryption technology and what it prevents is the problem of, for
 example, removing a drive from a system and putting it into another drive and using, you
 know, NTFS-aware drivers to access a drive underneath the security system.
 You know, it's one thing not to be able to access the drive if you're a non-privileged
 user but it's always been the case is you could access the drive from outside the operating
 system and that's always been a problem.
 This basically encrypts the entire system volume with all your apps and all your data,
 you know, basically giving a complete wrapper around the system in Vista.
 So again, a hats off to Microsoft, this is a really good thing.
 Although I mean, we still probably would recommend TrueCrypt, it's just nice to once it's built
 of the OS, more people will use it, I guess.
 Well, and that's exactly my point and corporations will be there far more and exactly far more
 enabled to have this technology running and working on those laptops.
 But again, it requires Vista and I'm not going to be there anytime soon, I don't know about
 the rest of our listeners, but you know, not me.
 I'll be there.
 Don't worry, folks.
 Steve can hang out.
 He's still running Windows 2000.
 I'll be running Vista the minute I can buy it, although now you're making me think about
 how to buy it, whether I should buy 32 or 64, but we'll get to that.
 Okay.
 Let's talk about that now.
 Okay.
 Several major new security systems in Vista to protect the kernel.
 We've talked about root kits.
 We know how big a problem root kits are.
 We've talked about blue pill, the idea of running a program that just silently subverts
 your OS by sort of slipping in a hypervisor shim that the system doesn't even know about.
 Nothing hiccups.
 Nothing happens, but you know, your system has been taken over.
 Of course, the famous Sony root kit DRM issue that we talked about a long time ago where
 it turned out it had a problem that was allowing malicious exploitation of it.
 In addition to being a bunch of software that was being installed and then using root kit
 technology to hide itself.
 We've talked many times from different directions about kernel modifications.
 We talked recently a couple of weeks ago about the issue that the AV vendors like Symantec
 and McAfee and others were having over the news that the tricks they were using would
 no longer be permitted and there was some confusion at the time about, well, was Microsoft
 going to create an API that would allow them to modify the kernel?
 That is, you know, give them like somehow some means of authenticating themselves in
 order to allow those modifications.
 The good news is no.
 Rightly so.
 No.
 Stay out of my kindle.
 Now one of the things that that has been.
 That's true only in 64 bit though.
 Is that right?
 Yes, that's where I'm going right now.
 One of the things that's always been true of Microsoft is they have gone out of their
 way for forward compatibility or reverse compatibility, whichever direction you're looking.
 That is to say, as they come out with new stuff, they really go to extreme lengths not
 to break old stuff.
 Right.
 In fact, one of Mark Thompson's complaints about Apple is that Apple is far more willing
 to break older things and say, well, sorry, we broke that.
 So upgrade your software or stop using that or something Microsoft really, really tries
 desperately hard not to break anything that they've ever offered.
 Which is why your 15 year old copy of Wizards of Might and Magic still works on Windows XP.
 And interestingly, it's why them removing full raw sockets from Windows XP as I was
 begging them to do, it took them, well, took them to service packs and several years because
 they realized, I mean, even then it was controversial because they were taking something out that
 was going to break software and a bunch of software did break.
 They don't like to do that, yeah.
 They really don't want to do that.
 So, two things have appeared in 64 bit versions of Vista and only 64 bit versions.
 And that is, all kernel drivers must be signed.
 Now, signing kernel drivers is always a good thing because it's just nice to see where
 stuff that's down in the kernel.
 I mean, that has installed itself and become a part of the operating system.
 You'd like to know that it really came from Nvidia or from Microsoft or from Symantec
 or whomever.
 And an unsigned driver is always suspicious, especially since Microsoft signs all of theirs.
 You're able to look at the version information and verify the digital certificate if any
 of the drivers coming from Microsoft.
 The problem is that with, and driver signing appeared in and began to be really active
 in Windows 2000, but it was not enforced.
 It is possible to use what's called the group policy editor to enforce the only the loading
 of signed drivers.
 And for Windows, even Windows 32 bit Windows, you know, current Windows XP and 2000 to refuse
 to load unsigned drivers.
 The problem is you can't do a lot of things because since by default Windows 32 bit Windows,
 all versions of 32 bit Windows will load unsigned kernel drivers without complaint.
 Most manufacturers never bothered to sign them.
 And in fact, does it cost that money to sign it to get them signed?
 Yes.
 And it annoys me that, you know, for example, I've got authentic code credentials that
 allow me to sign all my apps and my older ones are not signed.
 My newer ones are signed.
 And I think it's like $700 a year that I have to pay for that privilege.
 And you know, it's just for some bits of code that goes directly, you know, and the dollars
 goes directly into Microsoft's pocket.
 So it annoys me.
 But at the same time, I want that authentic code signature to mean something.
 And in order for it not to just be spoofed and made up, Microsoft goes to some measures
 to verify that I am who I am.
 And so you could argue, well, that takes, you know, time and effort on their part.
 So they're getting, they are doing something for the money that I'm paying them.
 So,
 Well, that's a good thing.
 But largely, largely, code is not signed and increasingly there will be pressure on
 people to have their code signed.
 Yes, absolutely should be.
 I mean, yes, you may remember that one of my comments about Mojo Pack that I made back
 to the Mojo Pack people was, hey, this is not signed.
 It's dumb for any, any high-volume downloadable software not to be signed because IE will
 bring up a dialogue and say, this is an unknown publisher.
 That is the only way for software to prove its publisher is for that publisher to obtain
 authentic code credentials and to take the trouble and time to sign their code.
 It's funny.
 This has been around something like 10 years and it's about time they kind of enforced
 it.
 But what's going to be enforced, finally, is this functionality for the 64-bit kernel.
 Now, as you mentioned, Leo, you know, XP 64-bit has been around for, what, a year and a half
 or so.
 And because they are enforcing signed drivers, a lot of publishers said, oh, well, we're
 not going to do 64-bit support right now.
 So it hasn't really taken off because, as you said, it's a problem.
 Well, Vista is going to require signed drivers.
 And there is no exception to it, no way to turn it off, no way to circumvent it.
 So and Microsoft's thinking is this, okay, 32-bit applications will still run fine on
 a 64-bit platform in the same way that 16-bit Windows applications worked fine under, you
 know, Windows 95 and 98 and so forth, and of course, the NT and all of its children.
 So there isn't an application portability problem because you're able to emulate the
 prior API set on top of the operating system.
 You cannot do this with kernel code.
 kernel code inherently has to be rewritten from scratch, so no 32-bit drivers can run.
 No 32-bit kernel drivers can be used in a 64-bit kernel.
 So Microsoft's feeling is, okay, we're not breaking anyone's existing drivers.
 We're simply saying, you're going to have to get your drivers signed in order to load
 them in the kernel.
 Just to clarify, the signing is required for 64-bit Vista, not for 32-bit Vista.
 Correct.
 Correct.
 So from the start, what this means is that the 64-bit kernel will be protecting itself
 by requiring signing.
 Now, it also means a lot of things won't work.
 Well, no.
 You don't have to get 64-bit specific drivers.
 Which you would have had to get anything.
 Anyway, okay.
 And that's my point, is that this isn't breaking anything.
 Got it.
 This means a lot of hardware won't work because there'll be no driver.
 But exactly.
 But again, it wouldn't work anyway until the hardware had 64-bit support because 32-bit
 support won't work in a 64-bit platform.
 And it's certainly the case that 64-bits is coming.
 Now, here I am, and when I started thinking about this, it's like, okay, wait a minute,
 64-bits.
 I mean, 32-bits seems like it ought to be plenty.
 But we'd like to have more RAM because there are big server applications and there are,
 you know, big iron applications where four gigs of directly addressable RAM is beginning
 to be not a lot anymore.
 That's the current limit for 32-bit platform.
 Yes.
 So a 32-bit word, or D-word, as it's called, a double word, 32-bits has 4 billion different
 bit combinations.
 And so that allows you to access 4 gigabytes, 4 billion bytes of RAM.
 And that's the limit for 32-bit direct addressing.
 Now sure, we could play games the way we once did in the old days when we, you know, when
 we had 640k limit on memory with page stuff in an app, that we expanded memory and extended
 memory and all that.
 But that's just not going to happen anymore.
 Well, so what else do we get from 64-bit?
 We get more than four gigs of memory.
 We get more than four gigs of memory and the other major feature is what's called kernel
 patch protection or KPP.
 And this is really controversial.
 But it's controversial because it is so important and so powerful.
 What this means is that the 64-bit kernel will no longer ever allow itself to be patched.
 Now every personal firewall is doing this now in 32-bits.
 It's the only way personal firewalls are able to hook into the network layer where they
 need to in order to block incoming traffic because applications don't have that ability.
 So every personal firewall, the AV programs that have taken advantage of this kind of
 access, which has always been unfettered in all prior versions of Windows 16 and 32-bits,
 Microsoft has flatly said that ends now, that ends at the 64-bit switch in the kernel.
 Now this is the thing that Symantec and Adobe were complaining about, right?
 Yes, because they would like the freedom to do this.
 And they've proposed various ways of signing their privileges, basically using some sort
 of...
 It's okay.
 It's us.
 The problem is, and this is what we said when we talked about this a few weeks ago for
 the first time, Leo, is, you know, it was just like, "Oh no, don't let them, because
 there is no way if you create exceptions that the hackers will not find a way around those
 exceptions."
 And Microsoft seems to have come up with a good compromise, which is, "Okay, 32-bit,
 we won't enforce kernel patch protection, we'll just do it in 64-bit."
 But because they can't, they literally, they can't do it in 32-bit because it would break
 everything.
 Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
 Nothing would work.
 But they kind of needed that they would at first, it sounded like, and then they backed
 off.
 Well, what they've done is, they have created a new set of APIs.
 There is the really new thing that they call it WFP, the Windows Filtering Platform is
 a way for applications to reach down and get legitimate access to the raw network traffic.
 So that, for example, personal firewalls, they'll need to be redesigned around this new API,
 but it's a completely clean, non-kernel patching way for those applications to function.
 So, basically, the manufacturers are complaining because they would like to continue breaking
 the rules.
 I mean, and this is rootkit technology, and what this means is that 64-bit Windows will
 be rootkit safe.
 It will be rootkit protected for people who are not--
 Are we careful when you say that?
 I know you will not be able to modify the kernel.
 Now, the next thing that Microsoft is going to do, and this is not happening now, but
 because they've made this rigorous no exceptions policy, it means that they will be able to
 seamlessly create a hypervisor when they bring out their forthcoming hypervisor technology
 and use the chip's hardware to enforce a non-modified kernel by absolutely locking down
 the right ability of pages.
 So anyway, this is all really good news, but it does mean that people may want to consider
 whether it's worth holding off for 64-bits, because there aren't 64-bit processors.
 AMD has a few.
 In fact, I'm running on my shuttle PC, the 64FX, and then there's the opt-run in Semperon,
 and Intel has the Zions, but these are workstation-grade computers.
 These aren't in widespread use yet.
 Right, and so it's certainly going to take some time for these things to come down.
 So I guess I'm saying if they try to run Vista on their current hardware, I'm going to be
 very surprised if it's what I've been seeing in RC2 if it provides acceptable performance.
 That's going to induce people to say, "Well, boy, I guess I need more hardware."
 So I'm hoping that this will also create a market for 64-bit systems, which will begin
 then, and so the software manufacturers will start supporting 64-bit drivers, will start
 seeing some volume of 64-bit chips, that'll inevitably bring the price down.
 Yeah, because I just checked out a Dell server, a 64-bit Xeon workstation, and that was four
 grand by the time I was done.
 Yes.
 And of course, I'm not going to order it because I'm waiting for Vista to come out.
 But as soon as Vista's out, I have to say, Steve, I'm probably going to do it.
 And now you've convinced me that I should go with a Xeon or a 64-bit AMD price.
 Oh boy, for everything I've seen, and again, I'm glad you kept reminding me about the caveat
 that this was RC2.
 This was not final code, on the other hand, it was only two weeks old, and this thing
 did not seem very stable, and boy, did it not seem very fast.
 So I'll have it too.
 I'll have Vista running, we'll be able to poke at it, and we need to be able to talk
 to our listeners about it, but in terms of me using it on my main system, no, I'll be
 moving to XP.
 Something to be aware of, you may be getting new peripherals, because if the manufacturers
 of those peripherals don't do 64-bit Vista drivers, you won't be able to use them.
 So if you're only 64-bit, we're talking a fairly steep expenditure, and not just a
 new computer, but you may be getting new printers and scanners and so forth as well.
 So looking at this, the other direction for people who are still wanting to run Vista
 on 32-bit systems, there is not a huge change in what Microsoft was able to do in terms
 of really improving the system's security.
 Yes, you've got the firewall, yes, you've got malware scanning built in now, yes, you've
 got the equivalent of TrueCrypt in what they're calling BitLocker to do on-the-fly decryption
 of the whole volume, but there is no kernel protection and no driver signing that the
 Microsoft is able to bring into the 32-bit Vista world because so many people have unsigned
 drivers and are messing with the kernel that it would just break too much, and Microsoft
 said, nope, we're not going to be able to make that change.
 You might, frankly, want to think of Vista 32-bit as compatibility mode, Vista, and Vista
 64-bit as incompatibility but secure mode, Vista.
 Right, I mean, it's necessary to break some eggs to make the omele.
 Well, and that's why Mac users have benefited a little bit.
 Now, ironically, I'm using a 32-bit OS and a 64-bit Xeon on my Mac, but Leopard will be
 64-bit fully of 64-bit, so right about the same time Vista comes out just shortly after
 that.
 We'll all be going 64-bit someday.
 Well, Steve, thank you very much.
 We want to thank also our major sponsors who provide funding for this show, a Staro Corporation
 makers of the Staro Security Gateway.
 If you're a smaller media business network needs superior protection from spam, from
 viruses, from hackers, complete VPN, I use a VPN all the time, it's really nice to have
 VPN intrusion protection, content filtering, very important in small business, and an industrial
 strength firewall, all in a simple, easy to use, high performance appliance, great power
 at a great price contact of Staro, A-S-T-A-R-O.com, you could call 877, the number four, a Staro,
 and they'll schedule a free trial of a Staro Security Gateway appliance in your business.
 I recommend them, I'm using the 120 and love it.
 Also, frankly, if you're a non-business user, you can get the software absolutely free at
 A-S-T-A-R-O.com, and get many of the benefits on some old meter that you've got lying around,
 just put a Staro on it.
 Thank you to a Staro for their support.
 A-S-T-A-R-O.com.
 Also, thanks to Dell, I've been pricing him out, I'm going to have to put a 64-bit Dell
 system now in the Leos Pics page at twit.tv/dell, and I will, I'll put up, I told you last week
 I'm getting an XPS 700, you just convinced me, Steve, not to, and I'm going to go with
 a Xeon because I want to have that 64-bit.
 I think it's worth being on the leading edge in that case.
 Yeah, oh, and I'm going to tell you, these are nice machines.
 They're not as inexpensive, but you get good Dell quality.
 If you want to know more, I'll put my pick for a 64-bit machine, along with some other
 more affordable prices, affordable choices for desktops and laptops, on the Leos Pics
 page.
 It's twit.tv/dell, and if you're about to buy a Dell, want to get a new VISTA or Windows
 machine, make sure you go through that link so that we get credit for you, twit.tv/dell.
 We thank Dell and a Staro for their support of this podcast.
 Of course, Steve's website is the place to go for show notes, 16-kilobit versions of
 this program, and of course, full transcripts for those who like to read along while they
 listen, thanks to Elaine, grc.com, the home of Spinrite, everybody's favorite disk recovery
 and maintenance utility.
 Any interesting Spinrite correspondence?
 I've got another really fun story, but I'm going to save it for next week.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 I understand, Steve.
 Hold on on us if you want to read some of the older ones.
 So, S-P-I-N-R-I-T-E.info is the place to go for that.
 I just, I think everybody who has a heart, if you have a hard drive, you ought to have
 Spinrite.
 Steve, it's been a great tip pleasure.
 We will see you next week for another edition of Security Now.
 Absolutely.
 Thanks, Steve.
 Take care.
 Security Now.
