 "Netcasts you love from people you trust."
 "This is Twit."
 Bandwidth for security now is provided by AOL Radio at aol.com/podcasting.
 This is Security Now with Steve Gibson, episode 69 for December 7th, 2006.
 Internet anonymity, Part 1.
 Security Now is brought to you by a starro makers of the starro security gateway on the web at
 www.astarro.com and by Dell.
 For this week's specials, visit twit.tv/dell.
 Well, after that marathon edition last week of Security Now, a whole, what was it, almost
 an hour and a half.
 It actually was more than that.
 It was 97 minutes.
 Exhausted.
 And I should say Steve Gibson is here and he's our security guru and people loved it.
 They really did.
 I got some positive feedback in our Security Now news group at GRC from people saying,
 "I had one comment, someone said, 'They thought it might have been the best security
 now ever.'"
 Wow.
 They liked the fact that we took our time.
 We thoroughly covered the topics.
 I think more by coincidence than anything else, we had a really good selection of questions.
 They were complimenting me on the questions, but it's like, "Well, okay, I didn't really
 do anything different this time that I had before.
 I just read through a bunch of questions and found good ones, but I guess we just hit the
 sweet spot somehow."
 I like the Q&A's because of the variety.
 It's not just one topic and it's often the questions, and I think this was the case last
 time, are ones that I myself go, "Hmm, I wonder."
 It's good.
 That's why I do a call-in talk shows and call-in TV shows because I think people ask the questions.
 Sometimes we, as experts, don't always ask the right questions.
 We know too much, maybe.
 Yep.
 Well, and of course, doing that really keeps you on your toes too, because as I listen to
 you on KFI, I'm thinking, "My God, this guy knows so much."
 No, really, the breadth of your knowledge is phenomenal.
 It is.
 It's good training for that.
 I'm probably leaving that KFI show at the end of the month because I've been working
 seven days a week for three years, and it's finally taken its toll.
 My hair is falling out.
 Your family's forgotten.
 Well, I think that would have been the life family.
 Birthday you made recently had might be responsible for some of that hair loss too.
 It's hard to choose any one of the many projects I have to let go, but because the radio show
 consumes both Saturday and Sunday, it really eats my weekends.
 I think that's probably the one that's going to go.
 That's the thing that it will suffer is that forced training every week on 20 or 30 topics
 is great.
 It keeps my mind going.
 If I seem dumber next year, you'll know why.
 This week we're going to talk about something I think is very important, internet anonymity.
 Yeah, there's been a lot of interest from people posting on their own questions on the security
 now page at GRC.
 For example, people want to have a presentation about this network called Tor, which stands
 for the Onion Router, which is an anonymity enhancing network.
 I've begun to do a lot of research onto the specifics of that so we could talk about it.
 In getting involved in this, I realized that there's a social issue, like a moral and ethical
 issue that sort of comes up when you talk about, well, when you talk about any powerful
 technology and the internet and the anonymity that it provides is a powerful technology.
 Famously, Einstein was very concerned about the uses to which his contribution to the
 development of the atom bomb would be put.
 I think as I remember it, later in life, he became really sort of a peace nut really worried
 that this armament he had created was so powerful and so potentially susceptible to misuse and
 abuse that he partially regretted his role in that.
 Well, it's always mixed bag.
 I think if you accept the notion that there are times when anonymity is important, if
 you're a whistleblower, if you are in a repressive regime and you need to fight against it, there
 are lots of reasons that anonymity would be important.
 I think this conversation with Phil Zimmerman, the guy who created PGP, and that's what he
 says.
 He says, "Unfortunately, you don't get to choose.
 You either have a allow anonymity or not, and there are pluses and minuses to both, I
 guess."
 For example, it's certainly arguable that you cannot have free speech without anonymity
 because people will simply intimidate exactly and less willing to speak freely if they know
 that there are consequences to what they could say.
 I mean, I have to say, Leo, I have been self-conscious sending some political email, you
 know, in post-9/11, knowing that the United States government has become much more aggressive
 about scanning email, I mean, when I use hot terms and keywords and things, I find myself
 thinking, literally, my behavior is modified because I don't want a false positive, I mean,
 I'm no terrorist, I'm a patriot and all that, but still, you just get a little twitchy when
 you think that what you're saying could be triggering some automated system somewhere.
 That's why I use PGP.
 One of these days, we're going to get you using it because that's the point, but it also raises
 the specter of terrorists themselves using encryption.
 Well, yes, and in fact, sort of on the issue of the benefit of it, you know, GRC maintains
 news groups and we don't require anyone to authenticate themselves in any way.
 So, you know, most of the people there use handles, you know, typical internet handles,
 some random, you know, combination of words and letters and things that identify them.
 And that's the only way they're identified.
 Now, we implemented the technology to essentially create a hash of their login, which is not
 in any way associated to their name or any other information, but it's a unique token
 which cannot be spoofed.
 And so the idea is that posters at GRC have a handle, which is anonymous, but they also
 have a tag which every posting they make is stamped with that tag, which is just, I mean,
 it's literally, it's the result of a cryptographic hash.
 And what it means is that nobody is able to impersonate somebody else, even though everyone
 is able to remain anonymous.
 And actually, the other cool thing is that this allows people to securely delete their
 own postings if something happens and they regret what they posted, they were upset at
 the time.
 You know, it's been a traditional problem with news groups is that you either could
 not delete or you or anyone could delete, in which case you have, you know, specious
 deleteers who are deleting other people's posting.
 So we didn't want that, but we also wanted people to be able to, you know, amend their
 own postings.
 And so this allows them to do that.
 But the point is that I'm, I'm really an advocate of, of allowing people to be anonymous if
 that's what they want, because I think it gets the truth.
 I mean, I, I really think people feel much more free to say what they really think if
 they're anonymous.
 Right.
 Now, even in my own little microcosm, speaking of about this, just for a minute, I mean,
 there has been a downside to that back when I was being very vocal about raw sockets on
 Windows XP, you know, and created a huge fuhrer in the industry, the news groups drew a lot
 of attention from what you could only call trolls.
 I mean, people who were, who were trolling the group, I mean, it was really awful.
 Now, I refused to delete those postings.
 I mean, I have, I mean, it's my server, my bandwidth, my storage, you know, and, and
 people there were saying, Steve, how, why are you allowing these people to badmouthe you
 like this and just leave this content on the server?
 And my feeling was, well, that's their opinion.
 And you know, who am I to say that they don't have as much right to post something negative
 about, you know, Steve Gibson and GRC as somebody else has to post something positive.
 Right.
 I mean, I ended up being vindicated in that issue with Microsoft, of course, and raw sockets,
 which are now removed from XP after service back to, but I mean, it was a rough time.
 And I mean, it was about me sticking to the principle that, that, you know, people could
 post whatever they wanted to and, and, you know, and do so anonymously, arguably, if these
 people had to be identified, then they would probably not have posted that way.
 I mean, one of the things that we see on the internet is much more outrageous behavior
 than you normally see in the physical world, where people are inherently more accountable
 for their actions.
 Oh, yeah.
 Buggy Bear 2937 is very easily annoyed and lets us all know it.
 I'm making that up, of course, but that's the real problem is that it doesn't feel like
 a face to face.
 You are somewhat anonymous and, you know, and on, on sites where people use real names,
 you don't see that kind of problem.
 Right.
 Right.
 And it's just tough because I mean, they're pros and cons to both sides.
 Well, I have to say too, that, that if somebody uses an anonymous handle over time, and we
 have the ability to prevent that from being spoofed as we do, what, what, what ends up
 developing over time is a trust in that person.
 I mean, that is in that, in that anonymous handle, that is, you will, I'll never know
 who many of the valued contributors on our news groups are, but they have identity.
 They've built an identity, even though it doesn't match their real name that you know.
 Now, and that's the why, and maybe this is the answer.
 That's why a lot of message boards have an ignore feature.
 So if conversely, somebody proves their identity to be a complete butt head, you just press
 the ignore button and you don't see their stuff anymore.
 Maybe that's the kind of solution we need instead of saying, no, you've got to use your
 real name.
 We need maybe do it some other way more innovatively.
 Well, and of course, in, in, in the press, there's this whole notion, well, and even
 in law enforcement, there's this notion of an anonymous informant.
 I mean, you know, the, the, the famous deep throat, who was, who was, who was participating
 in the whole, the whole Watergate issue and, and informing Bob Woodward of, of what was
 going on.
 I mean, this was a person who over time built up a relationship with this person in the press.
 And so, you know, and, and the same thing of course happens in law enforcement where somebody
 will have a confidential informant that is, that it has over time has proven their integrity
 may always need for whatever reason to remain anonymous, but feels that by providing certain
 information, more, more better is being done than harm.
 And you know, that's sort of the way, you know, that decision gets made.
 So the other thing that's interesting is there's, for example, there's, there's a network
 called free net, which is, is really the perfect example of very powerful technology where
 you're taking the, the good with the bad, free net allows the, the creation of, of private
 encrypted networks for storage of content.
 Now, then that, and that's something very different, for example, than other anonymizing
 services like, you know, the famous anonymizer.com that's been around for a decade, they will
 allow you to anonymously acquire information that is, for example, anonymously surfing the
 internet so that you go to sites and they have no idea who you are.
 Now, as we're going to discuss next week, it turns out that unless this is done with much
 more greater care than most people assume the, the, that level of anonymity can be penetrated.
 So it turns out that really true anonymity on the net is much harder to get than, than
 is normally believed, but, but free net is a different, a different approach.
 They're, you know, very pro anonymity, pro privacy, pro free speech.
 So their system basically allocates a chunk of hard drive space from everyone participating
 in the network and, and the content of free net is encrypted and stored in this big distributed
 database made up of all these different computers.
 Well, it's valuable certainly for people to be able to post and share their own content.
 Whereas, for example, with, as I said, with anonymizer, you're only browsing websites
 and they specifically don't allow you to create content in free net, you can.
 But I mean, it does mean that as a participant in this network, you have no idea how your
 hard drive is being used.
 I mean, it could literally be, you know, sure, it could be uplifting free speech articles
 about, you know, what's really going on with a government or, or actions somewhere in the
 world.
 But at the same time, it could be, you know, really distasteful, you know, child pornography
 or something.
 I mean, and the point is you are enabling that to be stored on your computer by availing
 yourself of this system.
 So, you know, I mean, it's a real mixed bag and, you know, the other issue is one of copyright.
 And it's really, it's interesting how copyright comes into this because the enforcement of
 copyright, that is the actual enforcement of it, requires monitoring communications.
 You know, that's how copyright is enforced is through monitoring communication.
 But free speech, as we've said, cannot be guaranteed in an environment where there is
 monitored communications.
 So I mean, just logically, that demonstrates that you cannot simultaneously have both freedom
 of speech and the enforcement of copyright because you're right.
 QED.
 Yeah.
 Exactly.
 And so, you know, many people have said, well, what if like free net is used for sharing
 of copyrighted movies and files and music and content?
 And it's like, well, yes, you know, that's a violation of copyright law.
 And so it's against the law for the system to be used in that way.
 But a system which robustly enforces freedom of speech, and we've already seen that freedom
 of speech requires anonymity, otherwise speech is really not unencumbered and not free.
 So you're going to have anonymity and inherently that means that the anonymity creates free
 speech and free speech means that copyright cannot be enforced.
 Yeah.
 So, you know, I mean, so I guess the real point I wanted to make was that we're talking about
 potentially very powerful technologies which can be abused.
 I mean, as you were saying earlier, Leo, there is, for example, an issue with terrorists
 using networks like this to securely communicate among themselves.
 I mean, it's absolutely possible.
 Right.
 I mean, that's the same.
 Of course, when you're just encrypting the email, you can still tell who's sending a message
 to whom, right?
 So for example, with PGP, there is the knowledge that we've got endpoints that are communicating.
 And one of the differences with a system like FreeNet, which is a rich network of interconnected
 systems which are encrypted, is that there isn't any way to demonstrate a point-to-point
 connection.
 Data can be deposited in this distributed shared database and it can be retrieved.
 So if I use PGP to encrypt email to you, everybody knows, who's snooping on us anyway,
 that you and I are having a conversation.
 Exactly.
 If I were to do it over FreeNet, nobody know who I was talking to.
 Exactly.
 And in fact, FreeNet, I think it's currently at 0.7 is the current release.
 They have just added some technology to allow standard Internet-style bulletin board communications
 where people are able to have threaded discussions with complete, assured anonymity and an inherent
 database, which is what any kind of a discussion board requires, and an absolute encryption
 and no ability to trace who sees what.
 Do you want to talk a little bit about how FreeNet works?
 I'm going to get into the technology of this stuff next week because it is complicated.
 I mean, because it turns out that, you know, for example, anonomizer that is essentially
 just a proxy, anonomizer is, well, any simple anonymizing proxy has the problem that if
 communications is monitored upstream and downstream of it, that is, on either side of it, it's
 possible to associate the traffic pattern coming and going and determine the IP of someone
 visiting a given website.
 And that's something that people don't typically appreciate.
 The idea being that, you know, packet size is very, packet timing varies.
 And so if somebody, for example, the government had the ability of monitoring the network traffic
 to and from anonomizer, they would be able to see packets coming in to anonomizer and
 leaving and basically, basically penetrate that anonomizing proxy effect because the
 traffic would allow them to associate connections through the proxy and basically punch a hole
 in the entire thing.
 So it turns out that obtaining, you know, this level of real anonymity is substantially
 more difficult than most people assume.
 It's just not a matter of running through a proxy, which is going to reissue your HTTP
 communications from its IP rather than from from yours.
 In fact, the Tor project says, it says, Tor only minimally hides such correlations between
 incoming and outgoing traffic.
 It says, even Tor, which is a multi-hop, you know, multi-layered system.
 It says, an attacker watching patterns of traffic at the initiator and at the responder
 will be able to confirm the correspondence with high probability.
 The correspondence between you and me, let's say.
 Well, yes.
 For example, if we were connecting through there, but normally Tor is used, for example,
 for anonymous, for like robust anonymous surfing, it turns out, though, that it is not
 that robust.
 Thanks.
 So anonymous.
 See, they're apparently.
 Well, exactly.
 And that's the problem is they had to and they deliberately mean they understand the problem.
 The only way to really enhance this is to introduce much greater latency, that is, for
 the routers in the Tor network, to hold the packets for a long period of time and then
 release them.
 Well, now, this is the kind of thing that you could do, for example, if you wanted to
 anonymously download files where you're not trying to do real-time activities.
 But things like VOIP obviously require real-time responses and, you know, to practically surf
 the web, to go from website to website, clicking on links and downloading content, there's
 a tremendous amount of real-time interaction between your browser and the remote server
 as all of the various components of a web page are assembled.
 So, this notion of real-time anonymity turns out to be specious.
 It is almost impossible to get that.
 One way you can is if the anonymizer also is a big cache because if it's caching, then
 many of the things you need, the assets and resources and even the pages you go to, may
 already be in the cache.
 You know, for example, people who use Google are probably aware that sometimes you'll
 click on a link in Google and that is a link that the Google has returned as a result of
 a search and, you know, the site will be down or offline or really slow and you go, okay,
 so you hit stop on your browser and instead you use Google's cached copy.
 So in that scenario, you're never making your request outside of Google.
 It's going to Google and you're taking advantage of Google's massive cache of the entire internet
 in order to prevent actually going out to that server and getting the content.
 So, there's an example where no one could detect, if they weren't looking inside Google, know
 what could detect from the outside over, for example, an HTTPS, that is an SSL secured
 connection to Google's cache, what it was you were looking at because Google would be
 the central repository of all these external sites, but that's exactly analogous to what
 FreeNet does because FreeNet creates this encrypted secured database of discussion groups
 of and massive amounts of content, which is completely opaque from the outside and due
 to the way it's set up, no one is able to determine what it is you're putting into this
 database and what it is you're pulling out.
 So we don't want to get into details on how this works.
 I want to do that next week because it's really interesting what the Tor guys did in order
 to create really robust security with their network.
 So there's FreeNet, there's Tor, and then of course there's local encryption which doesn't
 eliminate the locale of where it's coming from or where it's going, but at least encrypts
 the content like PGP or the new privacy guard GPG, which I use.
 Right, but I guess I'm glad you brought that up because the point is what's significant
 about that is that it's not anonymous.
 Right.
 In the sense that you know who it is, yes, right.
 Exactly.
 The content may be opaque and securely encrypted, but there's no anonymity provided by the people
 who are communicating at the endpoints and very often that's something that people really
 need or want for various purposes.
 And again, the problem is there are many, many, many good reasons and beneficial reasons
 for having and enforcing and allowing anonymity on the net.
 The flip side is as with any really powerful technology it can use, it can be used for nefarious
 purposes as well.
 There were for many years and I don't know if there's still around anonymous remailers
 where you would use kind of similar to a Tor or anonymizer, you'd use multi proxies and it
 would eventually hide who sent the email and where it was going.
 Unfortunately, I have to say, at least some of these have been subpoenaed by governmental
 agencies and I guess it wasn't hidden enough.
 In fact, yes.
 In fact, there was a case, there's something called the Java anonymous proxy project which
 spreads anonymous proxies around the globe.
 It turns out that the state of Germany did not want these anonymous proxies functioning
 within their domain, literally, I mean their dominion and generated legal action against
 these anonymizers.
 They legally required that a backdoor be installed in order for them to have access to what was
 going on.
 But this kind of anonymity makes governments very uncomfortable and others like the church
 of Scientology who compromised the pennant mailer.
 Well, it's a fascinating subject and we've just started basically as you have in the past
 with kind of a roundup of the high level issues.
 We'll talk about the technologies in the next episode.
 Yeah.
 I just, you know, we could have ignored the whole question of the value and benefit and
 importance and responsibility that comes with anonymity on the internet because it's very
 significant because the internet is such a powerful opportunity for giving people the
 freedom of speech and freedom of anonymity.
 But with that comes, you know, some responsibility and there's a dark side which I just, I didn't
 want to not talk about that.
 You can't ignore it.
 Although, I am certainly a believer in ultimately in free speech and I think you've got to,
 you've got to do it despite the negatives, the downside, the alternative of completely
 no anonymity at all is just as far worse.
 Well, and I mean, it seems to be, I don't mean to impose, you know, democratic politics
 on the world, certainly, you know, lowercase D, by the way, number case D when you say exactly
 lowercase D.
 Right.
 I mean, you know, certainly the rulers of China have a different philosophy about the way
 they think a state should operate, but to the degree that a democracy is a valuable thing
 for people to have, we understand that that requires that the citizens of the democracy
 be informed of what the government is doing and that there be good communications in order
 for this state to be managed and, you know, governments have historically fought that
 kind of really good communication.
 Governments would like to have more control and it's the lack of control that makes the
 system work, you know, in the long term.
 Siva, we've, we, as usual, sometimes technology verges on politics and this is a case where
 it does and I think you've done a great job of synopsizing both sides.
 Last week, the ins and outs, the technology behind FreeNet and why anonymity, why and
 exactly how technically obtaining real anonymity is a much more difficult thing to do on the
 net than most people are aware.
 It's hard to do.
 Thank you, Steve Gibson.
 Of course, we want to remind everybody that Steve's site is the home, not only to this
 podcast, grc.com and the 16 kilobit versions and the transcripts would also just spin right,
 and if you ever have trouble with your hard drive, there's no question at all, spin right
 is a must.
 It's in my kit.
 When I go around and work on people's computers, it's one of the first programs I'll run.
 It's the ultimate disk recovery and maintenance utility and it's highly recommended.
 I got a neat piece of mail from someone who recently purchased a Dell Latitude Notebook.
 He said, "I purchased a brand new Dell Latitude Notebook a couple of weeks ago and was very
 happy with the Core Duo Gigavram machine."
 He said, "It started to boot very slowly and programs would crash every so often.
 So I ran spin right and what do you know?
 It started finding problems about halfway through the scan.
 So I emailed Dell and told them that spin right was used on the drive and that I would require
 a new one with no questions asked.
 They set out a brand new hard drive the next day with prepaid return shipping."
 That's great.
 He said, "The respect from Dell to the spin right product was phenomenal.
 They didn't even want me to run any other software to confirm the diagnosis."
 They knew.
 He said, "Thanks, Steve.
 You saved a brand new Dell from an untimely death."
 Isn't that great?
 Of course, Dell can't control how the UPS driver may have been drop-kicking this guy's
 poor laptop.
 Well, they don't even blame UPS.
 Sometimes the hard drives just come out of the factory bed.
 I mean, that's not it.
 Exactly.
 It could pass initial tests and just have an infant mortality problem, but this guy ran
 spin right.
 It confirmed a problem and the Dell said, "Okay, that's all we need to know."
 I love it.
 That's kind of a joint plug really for spin right in our sponsor.
 I like it.
 Yeah.
 Very nicely done.
 True story.
 I actually just bought a Dell laptop in M1210, which is a dual-core two with two gigs of
 rattle.
 I reloaded this sucker up.
 Actually, I was amazed because the price for really absolute top-of-the-line laptop was
 about $2,000, and that's so much less than it used to be.
 In fact, we used to say the computer you want is always at least $2,500, and the dream computer
 is like $3,000 or $4,000.
 It was always a moving target.
 Yeah.
 Core two dual two gigahertz processors, two gigs of RAM.
 I got a 7,200 RPM hard drive because I wanted to ... This is going to be my Vista machine,
 so I really wanted to trick it out, knowing that Vista is going to be demanding.
 They don't have hybrid hard drives yet, unfortunately, but everything else.
 I just loaded that sucker up, and I was very pleased.
 If you want to link to that or to other Leo's picks, including the XPS that we bought for
 call for help, you'll find a twit.tv/del.
 That's the Leo's picks page.
 Dell does provide us with financial support for this podcast and a number of the other
 twit podcasts.
 They've been a really great sponsor.
 In fact, I think our contract runs out in the next couple of weeks, and I'm hoping we
 can get them to come back, but I do appreciate their support and your support, too.
 When you buy any Dell product by going through one of the links on the twit.tv/delpage, we
 get credit for it.
 So thanks to Dell for their support.
 Oh, also want to mention Astaro, because they have been here since practically day one.
 I can't remember exactly what episode they joined us on, but early on, they've been big
 supporters of the show, and they were our first sponsor.
 They were the first sponsor on the twit network.
 They've decided to come back for another year, and we love them, and there's good reason.
 It's an open source, high quality, security gateway.
 If you have a smaller media business and you need superior protection from spam, from viruses,
 from hackers, you get a complete VPN, intrusion protection, content filtering, and, of course,
 the industry strength firewall on a very easy to use high performance appliance.
 I've got one, and I just love it.
 It's the Astaro security gateway contact them.
 They'll give you a free trial, www.ASTARO.com or call 877, the number four, ASTARO, you can
 schedule a free trial.
 And home users, non-business users, can download the software version of ASG free for home use.
 Also, ASTARO.com, thanks to them.
 So next week is talking about the technical challenges of internet anonymity.
 I did mention last week that I would have a new piece of security oriented freeware to
 announce.
 Unfortunately, we're recording this and next episode early.
 I have time, yeah.
 Yes, and I've gotten myself tangled up in some tricky details with it.
 It's going to end up being, I think, even cooler and more valuable than I originally
 expected.
 But it's also turning out to be a lot more challenging.
 So I'm going to delay the announcement until I actually had the thing running and bulletproof
 and tested.
 So it'll be a couple of weeks, and we'll talk about what that is.
 No problem at all.
 You're in heaven, though, aren't you, when you get to code on a new project?
 Oh, finally, Leo.
 I'm back to writing some code.
 Does that make you feel good?
 That's neat.
 I can tell.
 Are you running this in assembler?
 Yeah, of course.
 Oh, Steve.
 Yep.
 That's my passion.
 That's my language.
 Well, it turns out that it turns out that it's exactly the right language for this application,
 because I'm dealing with, you know, down in the registers of Intel processors, you know,
 and you know, dealing with literally setting bits on and off and protected mode and privilege
 instructions and all that kind of stuff.
 So well, let's work on Vista as well as XP.
 Yep.
 Really?
 Yep.
 And I've got to say, I mean, are you, did you test it in Vista?
 Yeah.
 You can test it in Vista.
 In fact, I have a new MacBook with the Intel Core 2 Duo, because I needed some more recent
 chips in order to see it were running there.
 And Leo, I got to tell you, I'm going to disabuse you of this notion that Vista requires
 a lot of power.
 I mean, I am really happily running it on my little HP TC 1100 notebook.
 I mean, my model is low power.
 That's the old tablet.
 Yeah.
 That's not fancy.
 I mean, well now the one right the one, yes, the 1000 was a transmitter and they realize,
 whoops, that was a mistake.
 And so they went to the 1100, which is a Pentium M, I think it's 1.2 gigahertz or something.
 But I mean, it is, it is completely usable.
 That's good news.
 And, and I'm, I mean, I'll tell you, I don't have the, the, uh, I got it.
 I'm never going to remember the name of this in this UI that glass arrow glass arrow glass.
 I don't have that.
 You need that.
 I'd really don't need it.
 And Leo, there are so many little touches that there is now like stroke recognition on
 the tablet.
 So you're able to like scroll, you're able to scroll the, uh, a browser page just by
 stroking up or down.
 You're able to copy, paste, cut and delete using, um, uh, stylus strokes.
 Anyway, I'm, I'm seriously considering maybe just skipping over XP and, and going to VISTA
 because I mean, I, I really think this is, you know, you and Paul, we're, we're, we're
 talking on, on Windows weekly on Friday, saying that, you know, in his opinion, cause he's
 of course been really exposed to it, he thinks it's like Microsoft really got it right.
 I'm excited about it.
 I'm totally excited about it.
 Yeah.
 And, and here I am saying, you know, Mr. Skeptic, Mr. Oh, don't touch it for a couple years.
 Blah, blah, blah.
 So, um, it, there's a lot to like about it.
 In fact, I have to say on this M1210, it's running XP because I haven't yet got my MSDN
 subscription in it.
 And it's, I don't, it's like, I don't even want to try it.
 I don't, I know XP.
 I'm not interested.
 I don't want VISTA.
 I want VISTA.
 And I'm sure everybody else is saying the same thing.
 So, um, all right, well, uh, we're just going to say goodbye and see you next week.
 And thank you, Steve.
 I don't.
 All right.
 And we'll see you all back here.
 Time's the same place for security now.
