 Netcast you love from people you trust This is Twitch Bandwidth for security now is
 provided by AOL Radio at AOL.com/podcasting
 This is Security Now with Steve Gibson, Episode 60, October 5th, 2006.
 Your questions, Steve's answers number 11.
 Security Now is brought to you by Astaro, makers of the Astaro Security Gateway, on the web
 at www.astaro.com Steve Gibson, we are back and we have an apology for last week.
 We're just both of us so distracted and busy and of course we're recording this episode
 on Saturday early because you're off to Toronto again next week and so for us it was yesterday
 that we were together at the podcast and portable media expo.
 Wasn't that fun?
 It was really great, I mean so many security now listeners and just general Twitch supporters
 were there, my hand isn't quite falling off from shaking so many people's hands but it
 was really neat to have that contact.
 But it's my fault entirely, not Steve's, we had the podcast done, I just was a little
 fuzzy with all of the attention and I just, I forgot and I'll be honest with you, it was
 very simple I just forgot but I got it up, when I got to the airport I ran out of there
 because I had a flight and had a couple of minutes at the airport I had found some Wi-Fi
 because we remembered, I think we remembered in the car, so it's like driving away, I mean
 I literally thought it was Thursday, I didn't even know what day it was, yeah, so but it's
 not your responsibility, it's my responsibility, we had done it so, as soon as I got to somewhere
 anywhere that I could, I get it up, I did, in fact they were boarding the plane and I'm
 typing very frantically, and a lot of listeners were writing and saying hey, what happened,
 where are you guys, are you guys okay?
 And so anyway, so I want to thank everyone for your concern, we really do try never to
 be late because I know it's important and people have a sort of factored into their
 schedule which is also very flattering to us, so.
 Well unfortunately it's a nature of a podcast sometimes, I mean I don't want to say we're
 amateurs, but we're certainly, it's more of a hobby than a profession and so sometimes
 things happen and I do apologize, we will, but in a way it's gratifying because we know
 now that people actually listen.
 Yes, and we both do take it very seriously, so you know, that's why we're recording this
 one on a Saturday morning, so there will be something, no there will be something next
 Thursday.
 That's right, because I'm off to Canada now to do a security now right after this one.
 We do have, it's a, it's a episode 60, that's divisible by four, so you know what that
 means.
 Yep.
 A dozen Q and A.
 I think we've got a dozen good questions from our listeners all around the world.
 Starting off with, I, I, I, I, bro, I hope I'm saying our Abba bro, Denmark.
 You know I met some Danish podcasters while I was, was a podcast expo and we have some
 real fans in Denmark.
 Martin Renson says, where do I find the show notes for security now?
 Simple short question, sort of a little bit of a softball question, but, but it does come
 up.
 So I just wanted to let people know that on the security now page, the every, every episode
 has its own box with a description.
 The first icon is the high quality 64 K-bit audio.
 The second icon is the quarter bandwidth 16 K for, yeah, as, as you put it Leo for the
 bandwidth impaired, the third icon is always the show notes and, you know, many shows don't
 have them, but from time to time, we'll have one like we did last time or actually time
 before where we were talking about the VML exploit and there, I mean, that page has been
 heavily read, something like 8,500 readings per day, I think it was getting so, so yeah,
 so it's the third icon in for every single show is always the show notes and then the
 following three are various forms of the transcripts that Elaine does and in fact, we met her
 for the first time.
 That was fun.
 Yeah, she came out to the podcast Expo and so we were able to hang out with her also.
 Yeah, she's our transcriptionist, a wonderful person, it is a very good job.
 I, and I have to apologize on many of the other shows, we have more complete show notes.
 I point to Steve's page for the show notes.
 But from time to time, I will put, if there's something really important, I'll put links
 in the show notes on twit.tv as well and maybe I'll start doing more of that because, you
 know, it's really just a time issue.
 So we'll figure out some way to get more information there so that, you know, 'cause I know a lot
 of people just go to twit.tv.
 In fact, actually the truth is a lot of people don't even go to any web page, they listen
 to it, it's automatically downloaded and we, on some of the shows actually do put more
 complete show notes in the little descriptive field that you can see if you have an iPod
 or some MP3 players, you can see a descriptive field with the, with extra text.
 And that's not linkable if you're listening on a portable player, but at least you could
 see more and I should put more in there.
 So I'll, I'll try.
 I'll do my best.
 We're talking about, and talking about time, Leo, you, you've just added another podcast.
 Yeah, two more.
 Yeah, we have a new one from Paul Therat, I'm really excited about Windows Weekly.
 Yeah.
 And I said, I was talking with you about that yesterday and I really think that's going
 to be one of the top shows that we do because there's so many people interested in Vista
 and Paul is so great.
 You were with me.
 And he's not a Microsoft apologist either.
 You were with me, weren't you?
 When we met them?
 I was.
 I was.
 He, there was a market guy, marketing guy from Microsoft who was in charge, who was part
 of the Vista program.
 I think.
 And actually I'm glad to have met him.
 I've got his card and he said, Steve, when, if you get pissed off at Vista, call me first.
 He said it more gently than that, but that was the gist of it.
 You know, we'd like to, you know, we're doing our best for trying our hardest and we would
 love to have a chance to talk to you if you have any questions.
 And that's completely reasonable.
 It's nice to have a channel in there.
 And then I said, Hey, great news.
 We're going to do a Windows Vista podcast Vista podcast and Paul Therat will be doing
 it.
 Pause.
 Pause.
 He says, Oh, that's good.
 And that, and to me, that was the reaction I wanted to find if the Microsoft marketing
 guy said, Oh, that's great, I might not have been quite so happy, but Paul tells it like
 it is.
 And that's ultimately with the, the, the marketers stuff that fella said he said, well, one thing
 about Paul, he's honest.
 And I said, yes, that's why we have him.
 Yep.
 Windows weekly.
 So we'll probably be covering.
 And then you're also, I'm sorry, we'll go ahead and then you're also doing a new legal
 podcast.
 We are.
 And you met Denise as well.
 Denise Powell, who is a very well known legal blogger and we'll bring some great legal
 minds in to talk about some of the big issues in, in tech law.
 Now, not just not law in general, but boy, there's sure a lot of tech law and in, you
 know, we've, we've sat there on Twitter, sometimes trying to wrap our minds around some of these
 legal issues and not done such a great job.
 A little Denise was kind enough to say, well, you do pretty well, but I thought it'd be
 better to have somebody who actually has some training in this talking about these things.
 So that's coming out to probably after I get back from Canada.
 I don't know if I'll be able to get it out this weekend, but I'll try.
 I'll try.
 I'll do my best.
 Meanwhile, another question and we got off on a side track here, Brian Voller of Ashland,
 Oregon writes, considering the recent VML hole, that's what we were talking about in episode
 58, very, very serious windows hole, which has since been patched.
 Yep.
 We're glad to say.
 Is it possible for a bad web, bad website to re-register that DLL through Active X and
 exploit it because that was our fix for it was done, registered the VML DLL.
 I asked this because if it couldn't be done without already having infected the system,
 why did Microsoft wait even one minute and use the automatic patch system to do what
 you instructed us to do?
 Couldn't they have just done that automatically?
 Then they could take their time and really go over that DLL with a fine-toothed comb.
 If that's a case in considering how easy it was to disable the previous WMF issue, it
 seems to me to be criminally negligent on their part.
 I like this question because it starts off suggesting that, well, if a bad website could
 use Active X to re-register the DLL, which it could, of course.
 Well, okay, let's stop right there.
 We know that Active X is itself inherently a huge problem.
 I mean, Active X is downloading essentially a DLL code into your machine and running it.
 So if a bad website can use Active X to re-register a flawed DLL, well, it could just
 easily do anything else it wants.
 I mean, I wanted to sort of refocus on.
 That's the least thing they would do.
 Exactly.
 I see what you're saying.
 Yeah, I mean, doing that would be a very roundabout means of doing what they would really want
 to do if any bad website could run Active X.
 What that means is it's running, it's code, it just provided your browser natively in
 your system.
 Well, you're already hosed.
 I mean, it's game over at that point.
 So, you know, shutting down Active X or limiting scripting so that you're only allowing scripting
 for sites you trust or switching to a browser that explicitly does not support Active X,
 you know, Firefox without an Active X add-on, for example, will make you substantially more
 secure so you don't have to worry about browsers doing that.
 Now, the newer versions of Internet Explorer, of course, you know, Post Service Pack 2,
 they will warn you when a site is attempting to provide your system with an Active X control
 and run it and give you the opportunity, finally, of saying, "Uh, no, I don't like this site
 enough.
 I don't trust this site enough to allow that to happen."
 All right.
 Yeah.
 And there have been in the past bugs that would prevent the certificate from showing up.
 And that's really scary because then that's similar to the VML hole, means any program
 can do any, any website can do anything you want to.
 Right.
 But that's working right now, the certificate system, yes.
 Yes.
 We hope.
 As far as we know.
 Well, but again, you're still trusting your user ultimately to say, "Uh, I'm not going
 to let this site run."
 Well, no, that's the point.
 Is that in the past, they've been able to get around that warning.
 Right.
 So as long as you're getting the warning, yeah.
 One hopes that you're going to have people smart enough to say, "No."
 That's another matter entirely.
 Right.
 Colin McWilliams wandering around in the US somewhere says, "In security now 52, Leo talked about
 downloading Hamachi Server.
 Then you talked about setting up your own private Hamachi network.
 I looked online to try to find the Hamachi Server, but couldn't find anything like that.
 Hamachi's great, but I'm looking for a solution that does the same as Hamachi and allows me
 to control the network.
 Rightly so since Hamachi's now been sold, you might have some concerns about it.
 But he wants to host the Hamachi Server, but where is it?
 I can't find it.
 Well, we did address this once, but I wanted to come back to it because many people at
 the podcast expo yesterday were telling us what fans they are have Hamachi.
 They loved the fact that security now turned them on to this great solution.
 There was some concern about Hamachi's sale that Alex sold it to log me in, folks.
 And I wanted to remind people that for what it's worth, I did talk to Alex Pankratov,
 Hamachi's inventor, father, designer, and ultimately seller.
 He really did check these guys out and believed that they were really going to follow his
 philosophy of keeping this thing secure, not playing any games with people and doing the
 right thing.
 For what that's worth, he didn't just sell it to the first people who came along, he
 really felt like he vetted them completely.
 As to the Hamachi Server, it turns out that that was something he was talking about on
 his website originally and had intentions to do some sort of a hardware bundled solution.
 It would not have been ever downloadable software because he just knew he would never be able
 to control it from a piracy standpoint.
 He was going to do some sort of a box the way Google has like their own Google search
 appliance that you're able to purchase.
 He was going to do a Hamachi networking appliance of some sort, tying the software to the hardware.
 It never got past early alpha stage.
 The guys he sold Hamachi to the log me and folks do now have that as something they could
 pursue, but there's been no indication of whether they're intending to do that or not.
 It's sort of not something that anyone should plan on or expect to have happen.
 We probably shouldn't have said anything about it, frankly.
 We didn't know at that point.
 I did talk to Alex again to find out what's the story on Server and that's how I got the
 full update.
 Scott of Cincinnati, Ohio, wonders about virtual machine USB support.
 I plug a thumb drive into my computer and intend for the USB drive to be recognized
 by the virtual machine.
 How does the host operating system know the thumb drive is for the virtual machine and
 not for itself?
 This is a perfect question that follows from the issues we were talking about about USB
 support within virtual machines, if a computer that is the hosting machine, obviously it's
 got hard drives and you might have already plugged a USB thumb drive in so it's appearing
 in the host machine.
 Well, any of the virtual machines could be asked to see that thumb drive as a hard drive,
 but what the USB support does, it's sort of similar to CD ROM support, where when you
 insert the CD, who's going to own that the existence of that CD once it becomes acknowledged
 by the system?
 What USB support does within a virtual machine is it makes that support dynamic so that when
 a USB device appears and any USB device, not just drive devices, drive devices are sort
 of easier and always have been because a drive can be recognized by the host system,
 which you could then inform the virtual machine to be able to see, but the idea is the USB
 support makes this a dynamic process and you specifically configure the host and the virtual
 machine so that the virtual machine will be able to acquire any USB devices that appear
 once that virtual machine is already running.
 So it sort of makes the whole thing more dynamic and fluid much as it normally is when you're
 just running USB devices on a host without virtual machines.
 Does it decide based on which window is frontmost?
 In other words, if the virtual machine is kind of in the background, does it still grab
 the USB?
 You're able to configure the, I mean, there is a problem because you've got like sort
 of a resource contention problem because what if I put in a CD ROM and I want it to be for
 the Mac, but I've got parallels running.
 Who gets it?
 Yeah.
 Same thing in the USB device.
 You're able to, you're able to configure that on a per virtual machine basis.
 So it will always get it if I've turned it on to get it.
 Correct.
 Oh, that's interesting.
 I was hoping and it seemed to be that maybe it was just when it was frontmost only, but
 I guess not.
 Yeah.
 It is a problem.
 But, you know, I mean, hey, you're still getting to run two operating systems at once.
 Exactly.
 Rafael Wolf in Warsaw, Indiana has become a parallel fan.
 He writes, "Holy sheetrock.
 Parallel is amazing."
 Parallel is a virtual machine that you recommended in our last episode is for Windows and Mac.
 How is parallel is different similar than a bootable flash key?
 Ah, interesting.
 Using PE builder and flash boot, he's been able to create a bootable Windows flash key
 and a DOS key as well.
 Is it possible to take the image off the bootable flash key and run it through parallel's compression
 and make it even smaller?
 Well, this was a great question because there are two different solutions.
 There is, of course, the idea of creating as Rafael has a thumb drive that boots Windows.
 The problem with that, well, first of all, that works.
 It's useful.
 It allows you to sort of boot your own system that you carry around with you with whatever
 apps and things that you've got installed on it.
 The problem is you don't get containment.
 That bootable Windows would inherently be able to see all of the resources on the host
 drive that you've booted it to.
 If the host drive were infected, it would, oh, and it's sort of a bi-directional thing.
 The host drive would not be running, but if you, by mistake, you ran something on the
 host drive that was malicious, it could re-infect your thumb drive, and if something were wrong
 with your thumb drive, it could infect the host.
 So you don't, in that scenario, get any containment, which is what virtual machines, one of the
 several benefits of using full-on virtual machine technology.
 And his second question about using parallel's compressor, yes, absolutely.
 You could take the image from the thumb drive, compress it using parallel's compressor, which
 as I said, I did some benchmarks of size.
 I mean, that compressor really squeezes things down, and then put that much smaller image
 back on the thumb drive.
 I was crying about the fact that parallel's compressor wasn't available for the Mac until
 I found out, and I got a number of emails saying, well, it's actually built into the
 parallel's version on the Mac.
 You don't have to buy it as a separate program.
 Exactly.
 I was dumb.
 I didn't know that.
 But to point out, and I learned this from Callie Lewis at Geek Brief TV that there's
 a new program.
 She's going to demo it on a call for help this month called Mojo Pack, but I'd like
 you to take a look at it too, Steve.
 The idea is it's a PC on your USB drive, so your applications are in there.
 It's hard to tell if it's sandboxed or not, but it's m-o-j-o-p-a-c dot com, and that's
 why I wanted to get your...
 Is it dot com or dot org?
 Dot com.
 Okay.
 The idea behind it is that you could put on a USB device or an iPod, for instance, kind
 of everything that you use, and you're working exclusively in the Mojo Pack environment,
 so you don't have to install it, and apparently it's running your desktop and everything running
 directly from the Mojo Pack.
 So it sounds a little bit like a bootable nopics CD, but you don't boot from it.
 That's what the thing is.
 Oh.
 Oh.
 Oh.
 Oh.
 Okay.
 We have had a couple listeners mention it.
 In fact, when I was going through questions just this morning pulling out these 12, I ran
 across it, and because I didn't have a chance to track it.
 Well, it's brand new.
 It just came out of beta like today, so...
 Oh, cool.
 So I'm very curious to find out what its capabilities are.
 So I'm not going to commit you to this, but I think we might want to look at this down
 the road.
 I agree.
 Yeah.
 It's actually also used or intended to be used by gamers who can't install games at work
 who want to bring their games with them.
 Mm-hmm.
 Brian Haliger soon to be a father.
 Congratulations, Brian, and that Tampa, Florida wonders.
 I'm a network engineer with heavy skills in Cisco IP telephony, but not so much insecurity.
 I'm also a member of my local church, and as he said, as soon to be a father in preparation
 for being a father, I've been thinking about ideas on how I might protect my daughter while
 he's starting early.
 She's not even born yet from pornographic websites and predators and chat apps, et cetera.
 You got a few years, Brian, I'll be honest with you.
 My question is in regard to protecting innocent eyes on the internet.
 It is always something to think about though as a parent.
 I want to be able to teach non-savvy folks how to protect their children from centuries
 on the internet.
 I'd also like to give a class in my local church on how to protect your children from
 certain websites, maybe even block certain chat protocols or filter, log the chat content
 so parents can have a little more visibility into who their children are speaking to on
 the internet.
 Do you have any recommendations on a hardware device or software application that will accomplish
 this?
 Hardware would be ideal as it would control the whole network software would be acceptable
 as well.
 Finally, the better because of the people I'll be teaching this product to will be typical
 PC users at best.
 I like this for a couple of reasons.
 First of all, the first thing I would refer Brian to is our episode on the hosts file.
 We've received a ton of great feedback since that episode on just, I mean, the phenomenal
 difference people experienced when they just changed that one file to the galactically comprehensive
 file which we link to from the show notes that third icon on our hosts file episode because
 the host file, of course, intercepts a huge array of known, yucky domain names and prevents
 browsers from going there.
 So, I mean, it's so nice and such a simple solution because it works universally among
 all machines, all internet connected machines, somewhere have a hosts file which is generally
 easy to find depending upon what platform you're on and it's a zero overhead, zero footprint.
 It's something you could easily, for example, in his church mode.
 He could just say, "Look, folks, here's the specific instructions depending on what kind
 of computer you have and it just does a tremendous job of keeping your machine from going to
 these bad places."
 The second thing, because he was interested in looking at some sort of a hardware device,
 I wanted to sort of touch on the idea that you and I talked about yesterday, Leo, of
 maybe doing a special episode where I really take a look at what a star is offering.
 Many people have been sending us positive feedback about their own experiences, but I've not
 yet made time.
 I mean, for us, they've just been a supporter of the show for a long time and I like the
 fact that there was a good synergistic connection because they're into security, but from the
 standpoint of a hardware device, what you really want is something which is managed,
 where as new, bad things come along, somebody is informing that hardware device of what's
 going on and that's one of the things that the Astaro Gateway system does do for you.
 It's not something that I've looked at, but it might be worth looking at and, again, we
 would let people know, of course, that I'm not making an endorsement of it, but this
 is what the thing does.
 Yeah, we should certainly test it and show people what it does.
 We decided because the star was an advertiser, that would be probably something we'd do as
 a separate episode, not as one of the regular episodes, just to avoid any appearance of
 conflict of interest.
 It's not something that a star has asked us to do, but something we thought we'd like
 to do.
 It's always a little tricky when a company is a sponsor.
 We have to be careful about how we...
 Exactly, and in this case, I really feel that it is being listener driven because there's
 been a lot of feedback and people are saying, "Hey, I'm trying to use it.
 What do you think of it?"
 And at this point, I don't think anything of it, so I ought to.
 One other thing I'd like to say, another sponsor, but this is a sponsor of my radio show, is
 a company called Phantom Technologies.
 This I think might be really more appropriate for Brian's clientele, who the Astaro Gateway
 is not for a novice, nor is messing with the host files.
 They make a hardware device called the iBOSS that is a parental control device, and it
 is managed, but it's managed at their end.
 Just like their iPhantom, all of the data that you are coming into your computer is going
 through their servers, which is managed in the same way you would have a high-end Astaro
 managed server.
 But it's not cheap.
 I think it's 90 bucks, and there's a monthly fee.
 A good solution for anybody who wants to control a large number of computers.
 But I use it at home, so when we have four or five computers, and it does all of the
 things that you'd want, including filtering out bad sites.
 It does not log chats.
 That's another task.
 A really separate issue.
 Yeah, you could use software to do that.
 And I have used software to do that in the past, but I have some issues about spying on
 my kids, because they're a little bit older, but I think that in the past, it's good to
 have the chat logs, because if there have been any questions, we can go back and look
 at them.
 It's also worth mentioning, too.
 Brian could use these things, these solutions that are available today, over for the folks
 he wants to help at his church.
 But given that his daughter is not yet born--
 He doesn't have to worry about that.
 Well, and I guarantee you that nothing we're talking about today will be relevant in ten
 years, or eight years, or five years even, when it starts to be a problem that she might
 be using the internet.
 I think for his audience, you're absolutely right.
 For his audience today, though, M-Y-I-B-O-S-S dot com is something I would absolutely look
 at.
 I've been very happy with it.
 I use it.
 I've recommended it to a number of friends.
 And it does exactly the job that he's asking for, except for, as I said, for the logging
 of the chats.
 And that's a separate software, and that's an easy thing to do.
 John Milichik of Reading-- I'm sorry, Reading-- Reading, Pennsylvania-- warns of a nasty
 new eBay fishing attack.
 Well, I think there's more than a few of those.
 I just thought you might want to mention this on the show.
 There's a new, to me, fishing attack on eBay.
 I'm a seller with active auction listings.
 I received a standard email sent through eBay by another eBay member legitimately via their
 contact system.
 This is the way potential buyers contact the seller with questions about the items they're
 considering purchasing.
 However, the content of the email asks me to confirm whether my item is the same as the
 item and the link they provide.
 Of course, that link brings me to a fake eBay login screen, although where they collect
 your password and login.
 Although there's nothing new about linking to a fake login screen, I think this deserves
 mention for two reasons.
 The email comes from a legitimate and expected source, in this case, eBay itself.
 And unlike most fishing scams, where many ask you to log into your bank account and a bank
 you don't use, there's 100% chance here that the receiver is not only an eBay member but
 one with auctions, greatly increasing the likelihood of success.
 Thanks for the great as always.
 If you're already now podcast, I'm subscribed to the monthly donation program mostly to
 support this show.
 Thank you for your donation.
 I like this question because it brought me up a little short.
 I use eBay.
 I've been purchasing some stuff recently and eBay, from time to time, just expires your
 login and even though you check the box, keep me logged in on this computer and it will
 ask you to re-authenticate yourself.
 I think most sites will do that.
 Well, and that's the problem is I realize, I mean, conscious as I am of fishing issues
 and in any time I'm going to a site where it says, hey, you know, provide some information,
 I right-click on the page and check the credentials to make sure that this is really a site that's
 got an SSL certificate that matches the URL where I think I am.
 I mean, I'm diligent about that but I realized I could fall prey to this.
 If I were poking around eBay and I got a page following a link that said, oh, it's time
 for you to re-authenticate yourself, I might very well do that.
 So I just wanted to raise Sean's point.
 I think he's right.
 This is a sneaky one and it might get me.
 There is a very simple rule and I recommend everybody follow it.
 In the past, our rule was don't open email attachments and it's oversimplified because
 there are some email attachments that are safe.
 The very simple rule is do not click links in email and the reason is in HTML email you
 can hide with the link really links to.
 And so somebody who's not really paying attention will click a link in an email to draw them
 to a website that looks like a legitimate e-bay site but if they look closely they'll
 see it's not.
 That's how fishing works but at all cases it requires you to click a link in email otherwise
 it's not going to do anything.
 So it's just a good habit to get out of clicking email links of any kind and again there's
 some safe ones but it's hard to tell what you're safe and which aren't.
 You agree Steve?
 Yeah and in fact you know I think I misread that a little bit.
 I was assuming that all of this was happening on the e-bay site but you're right.
 I mean his note says you know he receives an email from someone and they can't fake a
 link in an email in an e-bay site.
 Right.
 Right.
 So again it's clicking that links in the email that really gets you in deep doo doo.
 Don't do it.
 If you Bain of Atlanta Georgia had some great thoughts.
 I'm in the process of helping my aunt learn how to use a new laptop she just purchased
 for a therapy practice.
 And by the way just to go cross back to that e-bay thing what we didn't say is if at any
 time you see you're concerned about a site you're on it's asking you for long information
 you can always get the certificate for that site and verify that it's the site you thought
 it was.
 Right.
 We should mention that too.
 Back to Matthew.
 I'm in the process of helping my aunt learn to use a new laptop she just purchased for
 a therapy practice.
 She asked me about how to keep her patient notes confidential and secure.
 She has a actually I believe under HIPAA a requirement to do so.
 I'm going to teach you how to use TrueCrypt to store all the documentation.
 I own a Macbook Pro and I use parallels for all my Windows XP needs.
 I was playing around with TrueCrypt on my parallels VM to learn some of its features.
 When it occurred to me one could have a completely secured encrypted OS by using TrueCrypt and
 a VM simultaneously.
 If one were to be running Windows or Linux with TrueCrypt installed they could mount
 an encrypted volume then create a new VMware virtual machine on that volume and the entire
 virtual machine including system files, drivers, applications, etcetera being encrypted instead
 of just encrypting your personal files from prying eyes you'd be protecting the whole
 system.
 Is this a practical solution or simply overkill would there be a downside to using these two
 great products in his fashion?
 Well I thought this was really clever and interesting.
 First I wanted to compliment him and his aunt on making sure that her laptop data is kept
 confidential.
 There are so many stories, I mean it's phenomenal.
 People who read security lists are seeing this all the time.
 Government agencies, the Veterans Administration, I mean serious, people should know better.
 It's just unbelievable I mean even now years after the early high profile stories about
 laptops getting stolen I think people just assume oh well I'll keep mine right next to
 me or this will just be temporary.
 It's hard to understand what they're thinking when data that they don't own is on a laptop
 which is inherently portable.
 It's easy enough to secure it, they absolutely, it's crazy.
 There were just stories this week about more government laptops missing.
 All the technology is there, true crypt is perfect for doing this.
 So again I wanted just to salute Matthew and his aunt for like from the start they're going
 to solve this problem using true crypt.
 For people who are thinking about this and may not know what true crypt is Leo and I covered
 this in an earlier episode called true crypt.
 By all means go back and take a look at it it's just a it's a fantastic solution.
 As for the idea of using true crypt to encrypt an entire virtual machine it would work but
 I'm a little nervous about the overhead.
 What true crypt does is it is on the fly encryption and decryption so that it's basically a filter
 which inserts itself between your operating system and a specific file or volume on your
 hard drive so that any data being written runs through encryption as it's going to the drive
 and then runs through decryption as it's coming back.
 So the computer always sees the data as if it's never been encrypted the drive always
 sees it always encrypted so you're super safe because nothing that's decrypted is ever written
 on to the drive so it's a it's a beautiful solution but that that bidirectional process
 of encrypting and decrypting on the fly will introduce some overhead so so I would say first
 of all if you really want to do this I mean it's a great solution it will work you could
 give it a try and see if it slows you down too much it just it might bog things down
 more than the benefit is worth but it would work.
 That's episode by the way was security now 41 so if you go to twit.tv/SN41 you can listen
 to it right there on this page and I was just looking at a news article because we're going
 to probably talk about this on twit at some point according to the commerce department
 actually yeah the commerce department they've lost 1,137 laptop computers since 2001 most
 of them from the census bureau so obviously a lot of personal information on there one
 hopes they were using some sort of encryption to protect those laptops but that I mean they
 just they will go lost and I always do everything I can to protect the data on my life.
 Yeah the only thing that I can imagine up that it's apparently going to work is for really
 strict legislation to exist that holds the people who lose the data accountable and then
 makes the makes the threat of what could happen so onerous and expensive that people
 go oh well I guess I have to figure out this encryption stuff.
 Well well it should just be part of the government build for crying out loud right exactly the
 IT people when they're setting it up bought it to do it without thinking twice and there
 should be no way to disable it and so and I I wouldn't be surprised if and we'll hear
 from him I'm sure but if they're already doing something like that and then we can hope they
 don't just write the password on the bottom you can't you can't solve that problem you're
 never going to get around the human problem though.
 Kai Dorton of Niceville Florida can you believe there's a place called Niceville?
 I just love that Leo and I saw that in the mail I thought okay you know here we got a
 bunch of dirt we're going to make a town what should we call it let's call it Niceville
 let's drain the swamp and call it Niceville I'm only up to episode 44 well he just heard
 the true crypt episode but I've made it through all those in under two weeks wow that's kind
 of a crash course in security I hope to be caught up in less than a week I heard the
 question about how can virus damage a CPU can something through windows or the BIOS hijack
 AC PI that's the advanced computer power interface something like that and shut down
 the CPU fan and or other system fans at a time of high utilization to cause damage what
 was in them what are you asking this question well it was interesting because you know the
 question did come up could something you know damage your hardware now when a CPU gets overheated
 it doesn't it doesn't die it just hangs you know the the typical scenario is when that
 when transistors get too hot they stop turning off completely they end up letting some some
 current leak through that will cause the processor to to essentially just hang it'll just you
 know you'll get a signal lock up yep exactly so so that's what happens when when processors
 get overheated they don't die but hard drives do hard drives really don't like running too
 hot and it's one thing it's one of the things that I encountered a lot with spin right six
 it's been right six continuously monitors the temperature of the drive if the drive is
 reporting it and it will stop itself to allow the drive to cool off if the drive starts running
 too hot and it was surprising to me early in the development how many people were encountering
 this problem because because what's happened is people are upgrading to 7200 rpm drives
 from 5400 which are more or are drawing more power are generating more heat but they're
 sticking them into cases they're there they're sometimes adding them to existing cases and
 the cases are inadequate to keep all of that extra power cool so I mean it's conceivable
 that if something came along and could take over your fans which are under software control
 and and cause them to slow down that you could create some permanent damage over the long
 term in your hard drives but your CPOs would would all they would do is lock up and you'd
 begin to get the sense pretty quickly that something has gone wrong here yeah you know
 you can and there have been viruses that have written to the CMOS at changing the BIOS so
 absolutely the theory behind this could could absolutely happen yeah although we find the
 virus offer authors these days are not interested in damaging the system that's the old school
 they want to use them they want to use them they want to sneak on their use it for forwarding
 spam or putting Adware up and then and so for that reason alone that that would be counterproductive
 they don't want to crash your system Joe Rodricks who obviously has a GPS because he says he's
 located at 42.01697 north and 70.967345 west did you figure out of his Massachusetts
 or did he yeah he he did I thought okay I'm not sure you want to give you know you're
 exactly location within a few to six to six decimal places but he did so it's okay go
 see Joe maybe it's a Starbucks I hope so I'm praying what's the best way to go about setting
 up a file server on my network I have an old PC I plan on turning into a NAS device and
 then I figured who hey oh why not make it externally available what does he mean about
 oh he means like to the outside world that's a good that's a really good question I didn't
 know what he meant either by externally available but I wanted to to mention that that I've had
 really good experience using samba SMB or samba on a Linux or free BSD system and using that
 as a file server so for example if he had a and he talks about being an old machine well
 some is very efficient on you know as are as is in general Linux and free BSD you know
 any of the BSD machines using that as a file server and then you could also of course use
 it as your gateway run NAT or a firewall or or whatever so that you've got one machine
 which is your your network interface to the world and you know if he really did want to
 make his files externally available he he had that he would have that choice then because
 that machine would be the interface to the internet where he could and in fact samba
 does have lots of security provisions for you know passwords and log ins and and and
 restricting IP ranges where things could be accessed and so forth so one machine could
 be a sort of a a general purpose file server internet interface for his network and all
 the machines in the network could then easily use just standard windows file sharing in
 order to access those files and that's built in by the way to every version of Linux and
 BSD and yes it is now samba is just an automatic well and I have to say too that you know I'm
 I've never been a big user of GUIs on these Linux machines well then there's no need
 if you're doing a file server I mean who cares about the GUI right well exactly but what's
 so cool is I do have free BSD servers at you know and our main facility at level 3 and
 I've got one here on my own local gateway I don't run GUIs on any of them because you
 know Linux and the Unix are are generally sort of text file configurable you know you've
 got you you've got various you know RC files and and and any files and in various types
 of files to to manage and configure the system but they're just text files well windows is
 a prayer is a perfect GUI I mean windows you got text files coming out your ears in
 windows so all I do is I use samba on those Unix machines and then I can connect either
 locally or remotely to and of course I've got obviously firewall firewall filter so nobody
 else can even see that I've got Windows file sharing available to only my IP ranges which
 are fixed at each end that are able to see each other so I just you know I bring up my
 Unix file directory tree on Windows Explorer and then use whatever editor I want because
 Windows has great editors and a perfect GUI to edit the text files so Windows is my is
 my management platform for these Unix machines really really works wonderful it's kind of
 a kind of a cross promotion here but we're Jeremy Allison the creator one of the creators
 of samba the maintainer the samba project is going to be on floss weekly in a couple
 of weeks and since you said you like BSD and I know you like VMware there is a BSD based
 NAS distro called free NAS NAS stands for network attached storage and so it's a very
 simple way to set up a NAS using a free BSD absolutely free and VMware actually it was
 one of the appliance winners in their ultimate appliance a virtual appliance challenge it
 won for best consumer NAS so I was saying Joe wants to look at that yeah it's small it's
 32 megabytes so you can put it on a USB key you can put it on actually what a lot of people
 do now is they put it on flash and and they actually have the flash boot the system you
 don't even have a hard drive to boot the system it boots into flash and of course you
 have the hard drives are storage only right it's a nice way to go very so I yeah I think
 a lot of people are doing this I bought a NAS because I wanted the hardware the raid
 five hardware but you can build one if you got a whole machine Brian Larson writes from
 Joe Berg South Africa cell phones can log on to the internet you can browse with the
 phone's opera browser or opera mini but cell phones don't have firewalls what's the security
 problem yeah I thought this was a great question I'm scared I didn't even think about that
 yeah and it is a security issue we certainly we've already seen situations where where cell
 phones have buffer overruns which are exploitable and I you know it is entirely predictable that
 as they become a bigger target as more people are are using browsers through their cell
 phones and you know Leo that's my big application I have a trio 700 P that I love and all I
 do is use it for reading news when I when I'm roaming around it doesn't support JavaScript
 at this point that is the the the blazer browser the blazer browser in in the in the trio does
 not support JavaScript so that's sort of a good thing and I'm using very simple WAP based
 websites which are just presenting small pages and I'm mostly just reading text but we know
 over time that's going to change that technology is going to mature the cell phones are going
 to be more powerful people are going to say hey you know I want to be able to do anything
 on my cell phone browser that I can do on my workstation so we know that Java is going
 to be you know added to it and they're along with that are going to come all the same security
 problems we've been dealing with on our on our much more mature platforms so you know just
 keep an eye on security it's going to be important yeah although the you know I guess the good
 news is these are such low-powered devices right now that they're not really a particularly
 attractive target right I'm there some personal data on it but brought let's see that was Brian
 Lawson this is Brian Voler of Ashland Oregon he brought up another interesting point regarding
 patents I was enjoying your discussion on parallels in the last episode 59 but I did
 not appreciate the idea the patents on saving the state of a virtual machine we're keeping
 others from doing the same this is a very by the way hot topic in the open source world
 is the idea of software patents and a lot of people don't like them this is the same
 concept as state-saving and console video game emulators for computers here's a Google
 search for posts before the filing data that odious patent number 6496847 I got a kick
 out of this because first of all we did answer another of Brian's questions earlier but you
 know the Leo you and I have talked about the issue of intellectual property rights and and
 I'm I'm very uncomfortable about this whole issue of software patents from you know as
 a developer software developer so that you know you have potentially something to gain
 from these things well yes except it what I what I have found is that that what the patent
 office is issuing patents that it should not that's the real problem yeah that's the problem
 because because then you've got companies that basically have a license to fight each
 other right some other company says wait a minute that patent should never been issued
 the company that has it says oh we love our patent we're gonna defend it you know and
 nobody wins but the attorneys yeah you know in this sort of fight and from my standpoint
 I'll the the line that's crossed is that is sort of this and I mean it is it is understandably
 a gray fuzzy line but it's the question of is this engineering or is this an invention
 and the language in the patent law which I have read extensively because I've been really
 curious like you know what's going on here is it talks about it talks about a solution
 which would not be obvious to someone trained in the art that is and so that this question
 of is this obvious or not and what I find is that that most of the time companies which
 are first into an area they will you know they're solving problems and coming up with
 solutions well for a company to come come along later to encounter the same problem and come
 up with the same solution mean okay sure we see often that that things are being invented
 at the same time by people who never talk to each other you know and so I mean that almost
 argues for the fact that these are not inventions this is engineering right and so so you know
 the idea being okay I'm a software engineer give me a problem I will solve it did I invent
 something or did I just engineer a solution and and so often what I'm what I'm seeing are
 patents being issued for you know the only answer to a problem which is not an invention
 it's just you know you went to school you learned how this stuff works and then someone
 pays you to solve these problems right right so you know it it it upsets me that that what
 I think we're going to begin seeing and where this is already beginning to start we're going
 to see an increasing problem with patents that have been issued over the last decade which
 are are going to cause much more trouble than they have as companies begin to sort of run
 out of steam and have to start going to litigation in order to you know find more sources of
 revenue yeah yeah I mean it's really become a real problem and there's a there's a real
 challenge to this in the European Union where they don't really have these kinds of things
 and or they hadn't had software patents for a long time and now they're starting to implement
 them and it's it's a problem it's too bad and see a lot of companies form just to fight
 just to you know fight over patents well yeah and there are companies that are just all
 they do is acquire patents right and they're just big litigation firms right um the original
 theory was that software could not be patented because software was just mathematics that
 was the argument that that the courts decided a long time ago and they said you cannot patent
 mathematics because it's it's nature I mean it's just it's here it's you know it's just
 it's all around us it's it's it's it's not something which was invented and then what
 happened was the way people began to get around this was that they would they would describe
 a software invention as a in a hardware embodiment they would they would actually design hardware
 which would do the same thing so they would patent the hardware and say well but the hardware
 is not the preferred embodiment the preferred embodiment is this little software over here
 that what they really wanted to do but they sort of said they sort of wedged it in by initially
 designing hardware to do the same thing and and then over time you know the patent office
 just sort of gotten like I guess they got tired of these ridiculous arguments that okay
 fine if you just want to patent the software we'll let you do it and of course now people
 are patenting genetics right they're like they're like you know patenting again things
 that already exist in nature that they didn't create they just found them and said oh we're
 gonna get a patent on this gene it's out of control it's really bad role it's bad Steve
 we've run through all 12 and you've done a great job I think it's time to give you a
 a day off haha well we're gonna have a week and a half off since we're recording this
 one early that's right but we'll be back for number 61 in terms of listeners listening
 to this one week from now don't get confused by what Steve just said we will will be we
 are going to be consistent every Thursday as as you we usually are yeah thank you Steve
 we want to thank the good folks at Astaro too who are our sponsors and our supporters
 and as Steve mentioned do a really cool product called the Astaro security gateway it is you
 know something I use I use the 120 and of course it's something the big businesses and
 big companies also use it is a very sophisticated device but what's nice is it's based on open
 source software and and they've done it right the sponsors of the show a startup corp have
 offered your small or medium business a special deal if your business needs superior protection
 from spam viruses and hackers as well as complete VPN capabilities intrusion protection content
 filtering of course an industrial strength firewall on the easy use single high performance
 appliance they will give you a free trial a free demo you just contact Astaro at ast a
 r o dot com or call eight seven seven the number four AST a r o and you can schedule that free
 trial of the star of security gateway appliance in your business which is fantastic and of
 course as always and I really want to underscore this non-business users could download the
 software version of asg for home use at Astaro dot com so another good way to build a security
 server would be to just get an old PC download the free software put it on there and then
 I think it's something like 79 euros a year you can get the full subscribe to the anti-spam
 anti-virus and automatically updated firewall and so forth AST a r o dot com Steve Gibson
 we will see you next week we don't know what we're gonna talk about it'll be something
 fascinating no doubt no doubt have a wonderful week and we'll see you all next time on security
 now security now.
