 This is Twit!
 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by AOL Radio at AOL.com/podcasting.
 This is Security Now with Steve Gibson, episode 68 for November 30th, 2006, Q&A #12.
 Security Now is brought to you by Astaro, makers of the Astaro Security Gateway, on the web
 at www.aust, a-r-o.com, and by Dell.
 For this week's specials, visit twit.tv/dell.
 Time for Security Now with Steve Gibson, where we talk about the latest security news and
 explain security issues.
 We talk about all kinds of things, everything from VPN to virtualization to encryption and
 security.
 And this time it's our mod 4 episode.
 Hi Steve!
 Number, hi Leo.
 Good to see you.
 Good to see you.
 Good to see you.
 I'm seeing you.
 I'm imagining you.
 I can see you in your security now layer, surrounded by security devices.
 Yep.
 Next month we will be together again in Toronto.
 Yay!
 So I think your last time in Toronto, you're not coming up in January.
 We'll be, exactly.
 It'll be my last time.
 Yeah, yeah.
 Then we're moving to Vancouver.
 And we've got to find Steve a direct flighter, he'll never come up.
 Yeah, you know, I did look at even the direct LAX to Vancouver, and there's enough flying
 time that there isn't time for me to get up there.
 Oh, and there aren't any super early flights, and so there's just no way for me to get up
 in time.
 But I've got some friends in Vancouver.
 Yeah.
 You know, I can come up the night before and hang out and visit your friends.
 There you go.
 We're your friends.
 Come visit your friends.
 Well, you know, I was listening to, I've really been listening to Windows Weekly with
 you and Paul, because, you know, clearly Vista is, you know, it's very much on my mind.
 It's very much on the minds of our listeners.
 Well, and today is the launch day for business.
 In fact, I'm doing a bunch of interviews.
 I'll be doing all things considered this afternoon.
 You know, everybody wants covering it right now, right?
 Even though, in fact, it's not available for months, for consumers.
 Well, yes, I know it's sort of interesting and frustrating.
 I did get, I got email from someone who has a, through his corporate volume purchase agreement,
 they just got access to it, and it's funny because he was explaining that his experience
 exactly echoed mine, he initially set up Vista on a machine and it was just like doggy slow.
 I mean, it was just like really lagging and his graphics had a 2.0 rating.
 It turns out that he updated to the newest Nvidia beta drivers and his graphics performance
 jumped to 3.6, he got the, whatever the heck that, what is that translucency called?
 Is it?
 Arrow glass.
 Arrow glass.
 Yeah.
 Which, you know, to my mind, you know, I'll be really interested to see what people think
 after they've had an experience with it.
 It's pretty.
 It just, it just bugs me.
 It's like, like, like my contact lenses are fogged up or something.
 You're on Windows 2000 guy.
 I guess I am, but, you know, I'll tell you, I mean, Vista really looks nice.
 And, and, and he also turned off the glass and then saw, you know, I mean, he, as, as
 he said, and this has been my experience, it performs every bit as well as XP does.
 Yeah.
 And there's some enhancements that will make it, I think, make it faster, things like this
 hybrid drive support.
 Well, it's funny you mentioned that because that's where I was going with this.
 I wanted to mention that the hybrid drives are not for performance.
 Oh.
 They're for battery life.
 Well, but there's, there is some performance benefit.
 For instance, it wakes up faster.
 Things like that.
 Yes.
 So, so there are some benefits from caching, but the reason it's on, on, on small drives
 first and on laptop drives first, as you and Paul were mentioning in last Friday's Windows
 Weekly is the whole idea is that, that, that laptop drives or really any drives really
 spend most of their time spinning and doing nothing.
 But that's, that's burning power.
 So, so what the hybrid drive, the whole concept of the hybrid drive is that the spindle will
 be stopped most of the time and that as the OS writes things to the drive, it build, it
 fills up this, this, this non volatile buffer with stuff eventually to be written.
 But only as that buffer gets near full does the drive then autonomously say, whoops, looks
 like I've got to get this buffer cleared.
 So it spins the drive up, it then flushes this non volatile cache from, from, from inside
 itself, which is where this non volatile cache is, out to the, the actual magnetic media.
 It then erases the cache and shuts the spindle down again.
 So it completely changes the, the, the model of, of how a laptop drive works.
 So that instead of mostly spinning, it's, it's rarely spinning and, and the whole motivation
 for this was, was battery life on portable drives.
 But wouldn't there be some performance benefit because of this cache at all?
 Well, I mean, you know, you, you, you mentioned at some point, I don't know if it was last
 Friday or before that, that EEPROM technology does not write very fast.
 Well, that's what, yeah.
 And that was my concern is how are we speeding things up by using flash memory?
 Exactly.
 And, and in fact, we're really not that much.
 I mean, this USB boost, that's the technology which can be used to enhance the booting of
 XP and, and the reason that the, the, um, the hybrid drive can't be used that way is its
 buffer is all about not, um, not requiring the spindle to be spinning all the time.
 So it, it isn't actually saving quick boot stuff.
 Got it.
 That's what what, that's what the USB boost, you might want to use both.
 I think you probably will.
 And in fact, I'll be experimenting with it here shortly so I can begin and doing some
 benchmarks to tell people, you know, like how this thing performs, uh, either way.
 Now you can't get a hybrid drive yet.
 So right, it's moved, but you can't, can you do the USB boot, the ready boot, right now
 boost right now?
 Yes.
 All that technology is, is available.
 I just ordered a laptop from Dell four Vista and M1210 that has, uh, you know, a good video
 card, lots of RAM, core two processors.
 And so I'll try that. I guess we have to find some thumb drives that are ready boot,
 very boost ready, I guess, uh, selling such things yet.
 Um, I'm not, I haven't looked at it.
 So I don't know one way or the other.
 My guess would be that that's not necessary because any of relatively fast USB would
 be fine.
 I would think so.
 And then the idea would be that, that, that XP would write to it a bunch of stuff that
 it knows it's going to need when it's booting, that enough of XP would boot to, to get the
 USB drivers going, at which point it would suck in everything from the USB that it would
 normally get from the, from, from the disc.
 But, but again, Lee, I mean, yes, you know, everyone's annoyed that windows take so long
 to start up, but I want to, I want people to understand that from my perspective, Vista
 boots as quickly as XP, it runs as quickly as XP. I mean, I, I want to really make sure
 I, I, I've back out fully from that first perception I had, which was entirely due to
 the fact that I was using debugging version and the, the pre-release version. And it was
 clearly not happy with my hardware, whereas, you know, the final one really, really got
 happy.
 Good.
 Um, the other thing is that I wanted to mention, I also installed it on, on a, on a, I think
 I said last week on a tablet. And one of the thing, I mean, they've done some things for
 the tablet, which is so cool. Um, but when it first installed, and this relates to something
 that Paul mentioned, uh, uh, last, um, last windows weekly, when it first installed, it
 didn't have the, the Waycom drivers for the tablet technology. It went out to windows update,
 not the drivers, and suddenly enabled all of the tablet stuff. And the, the cursor, when
 you're using the tablet, you know, since you're using a stylus, you really don't need a cursor
 under the stylus. So it's always sort of annoyed me a little bit that I'm dragging this standard
 windows cursor around, but I already know where I'm pointing. Um, they changed that so that
 the stylus with the tablet is this little tiny sort of twinkly star. I mean, very subtle.
 Now when you tap the surface of the tablet, this little ripple comes out. It's just, it's
 just gorgeous. That's arrow glass, Steve. Uh, it's, it is because it's alpha transparencies.
 That's gotta be arrow glass. Except it doesn't give me the glass UI because I've got a relatively
 low performance graphics. So this is just an animated cursor. Wow. I think it just uses
 a cursor animation. Oh, it's not rippling the desktop. It's just rippling. Oh, no. But
 I mean, it's just a little ping and it's sort of like, you know, echoes outwards from where
 I tap the stylus. I mean, it's just, it's little touches like that that make me think,
 well, uh, I'll be running Vista on my tablet here, uh, as soon as it's fully set. Are you
 talking tablet PC or you're talking, uh, talent on a regular PC? Uh, in this case, it is it's
 one of the HP compact. Well, it's the same. It's the same tablet that Jen is using because
 I really was admiring it when I was up at call for help. So I got one. HP doesn't sell them
 anymore, but you can get them on eBay. That it was the TC 1100. Yeah, I had a 4200 actually.
 So, uh, so, um, they, I, they haven't yet shipped the windows Vista tablet edition or you just
 don't have a copy of it. Well, in fact, it's interesting. I don't have that specifically,
 but there is all of the apparent tablet support is invested. It's in there. I, I'm guessing
 that there is no more a tablet edition of Vista, but in fact that Vista will just have
 that and it'll work when it's on a tablet. Very good. I'm looking forward to it. I have
 to say, uh, you know, the jury's still out, as you said, on security and, and, and reliability
 and so forth. And it's not really a target yet. Hackers haven't had a chance to really
 bang on it, but I'm, I, it can't be any work. Well, maybe you could. I take that back after
 hearing the Vista Virgin stack episode. Yeah, I mean, I think I think we're there, there
 will be some problems where we're still suffering stack overflow sorts of buffer overrun stuff.
 No, I don't see anything that's going to fix that until we get this, um, you know, the,
 the, um, data execution prevention, the DEP technology ubiquitously present in, in users
 machines, but any new machine will support that. And I would hope Vista has that turned
 on by default. Well, that was exactly what I was going to say. All of the lessons we
 have learned have told us that technology that's not on by default might as well not
 be there at all. I mean, it has to be on like, like service back to his firewall. That's
 what finally shut down all of the worms. And so Vista will be better than XP was in the
 beginning because it'll have the firewall turned on by default, but, but the question
 will be, does it have DEP turned on by default? Um, I, you could certainly imagine that the
 64 bit version may, although that's user mode protection. And that's very different than
 kernel mode protection. Actually, we've got a couple of questions in today's Q and A
 that are going to be addressing that. So we'll, we'll, we'll be covering that. The last thing
 I wanted to mention was some things just happened that I thought was very significant. And that
 is that sands, the, um, the sands internet storm center, the ISC honeypot has found recently
 out of 12 malware specimens. Three of those were virtual machine aware boy. Oh boy. You
 mean blue pill style attacks? Well, no, no, what it was was the, this was malware that
 was, that was deliberately detecting if it was being run in a virtual machine and being
 benign. If so, the idea interesting, yes, it would see that it was in a VM and it would
 not do its bad stuff. Why not? Because they want that they want to thwart researchers
 who are, are, are, are trying to use virtual machines as station containers as do most of
 these honeypots. In fact, we learned this in episode one of security now. Exactly. Exactly.
 So, so, so the idea was that, you know, the, the malware will not misbehave if it's in
 a virtual machine container so that, that researchers have a problem. And the other insidious thing
 is that if end users were using, like if, if, if, if security aware high end tech users
 were using a virtual machine to test software for, for it's containing anything malicious
 and they were putting in a virtual machine as a test environment, deciding that, oh, look,
 it, this is not doing anything bad. It hasn't hooked the kernel. It hasn't modified any
 system files, blah, blah, blah. Then they take it out of that container to install it on
 their native machine platform. Boom. Exactly. Gotcha. Only then would the malware watch itself
 and, and these guys are amazing. These guys are writing this stuff. I mean, I don't want
 to give them a lot of credit, but they really do work hard to keep up with what's going
 on. Well, and, and you know, this is the nature of any sort of a cat and mouse scenario where,
 we don't really have robust protection. All we've got is, you know, the good guys battling
 the bad guys in a more or less level playing ground and when the, when the playing ground
 or playing field is level and the bad guys are able to do, you know, as much, they have
 the same resources as the good guys. I mean, that's always been the virus, anti virus,
 spellware, spyware, anti spyware battle is this, is this back and forth thing. And so,
 you know, it's the reason, for example, that I salute Microsoft for being so determined
 not to allow the kernel to be modified under the 64 bit version of, of XP and Vista. And
 because this will eventually, even though as we saw last week, that the windows kernel
 protection doesn't really solve the problem. It's, it's a stepping stone to them introducing
 a hypervisor that will lock down the kernel eventually and finally really prevent root
 kits from ever being able to get a hold. So neat stuff. Good, good, good. I'm wondering
 if I should, I guess I will try to install the 64 bit version of Vista first on this
 new laptop, just to see if it runs. I'm definitely going to be doing experiments too. I downloaded
 the 64 bit version. It's the, the, the ISO for the 32 bit version. I think it was 2.6,
 687 gigs. The 64 is 3 point something 3.6 or something. So it's an extra gig of stuff.
 So it's a bigger ISO still fits on 1 DVD. It's a substantial download, but you know, it's
 definitely something that, you know, needs to be taken and look at. I mean, I want to
 see what drivers are available because, you know, right now Vista had all the drivers
 built in that I needed for the two machines that I run it on, which are not new machines.
 And so why wouldn't the 64 bit version, since all these drivers are coming from Microsoft,
 why wouldn't the 64 bit version also know about all the same hardware? It has to have 64 bit
 drivers as you pointed out. And I guess they haven't gotten around to writing all of those
 drivers yet.
 Well, it's the third parties who have, you know, quacky hardware. I guess so if, if,
 if Microsoft has the support, if it's a Microsoft driver, why wouldn't they? That's my point.
 Yeah. Yeah. And, and, and Vista, you know, as Paul said on Friday and as my experience
 has been, Vista already has known about a much wider range of hardware right out of
 the box then, then XP or certainly any earlier operators, something for five years of work.
 Yeah. I'm looking forward to trying it on this laptop. I mean, it's a, it's a brand
 new Dell laptop. It should have all of the, you know, I mean, it shouldn't be anything
 weirdo in it. And if, I mean, I was certainly Microsoft knows about every bit and piece
 of that laptop. So you'd think 64 would install right out of the box.
 I have a feeling we'll see. I'll let you know. Shall we get to our questions? We've
 got a lot of them. Yep. This is, as I said, episode 68 means it's divisible by four and
 it's a question and answer number 12. Uh, we've got a dozen excellent questions from
 you are esteemed listeners. Oh, I want to say before we do that, we'll get to the questions
 in a second, but I do want to mention, uh, Dell, since I already did give them a little
 plug and remind you that the laptop I just bought, the, the, the big desktop that we just
 bought for call for help and other, uh, I put one affordable in the system in there too,
 are all available at the Leo's picks page, Twitter TV slash Dell. Uh, if you're buying
 a new computer looking for a computer for Vista, may I recommend Dell? We've, we've had
 such good results with them over a decade now using them on TV, uh, where, where it really
 is a challenging environment and we're constantly banging on these things, installing new stuff,
 really, you know, working at harder than you ever would at home. And they just stand up
 and work and work and work and work, uh, twit.tv slash Dell. Any Dell you buy through that page,
 any Dell at all will benefit the Twit TV network. So we thank you and Dell for their support.
 Now let us, uh, do you, do you want to quickly mention spin right before we go to these questions
 or should we save that for later? We'll talk about it for next week, actually. I've got
 a, another couple cool stories about spin right next week. All right. All right. Cause I do,
 I do want to make sure everybody knows about spin right. And you have some neat new software
 coming up on GRC.com too. We'll talk about that when it's ready. Yep. Actually that I've
 seen a picture. I mentioned it last week. I wasn't sure I was going to do it. Now I'm in the middle
 of it. And so, uh, next week we will be announcing the first, the first piece of security software
 to come directly from the content in security. Now it's been my talking about this stuff in the
 last couple of weeks that I thought, you know, I've got an idea for something I want to write.
 So it's new piece of GRC freeware. We will announce that it'll be available next week.
 Good. Just in time for Christmas. GRC.com. All right. Question one from Jay Sisko of Seattle,
 Washington, you were talking about the BitLocker technology, uh, in the forthcoming Windows Vista.
 It's full disk encryption. I work at a company that's considering rolling out the technology to all
 of their laptop and desktop machines. Good idea on the laptops. I think, you know, you, you see
 people like the veterans administration losing laptops with private data on there. Boy, I mean,
 he says, since you're intimately aware of how a hard drive functions for data, what are the
 reliability implications of using full disk encryption? For example, if a non encrypted hard drive,
 we're suddenly to get a bad sector. Well, only the file sitting in that particular sector to be
 unreadable. Does full disk encryption fail if there are errors on reading a sector? In other words,
 am I going to lose a whole lot? Does the entire volume fail over one bad sector? And how would data
 recovery tools deal with the randomized data? Very good question. Really good question. Um,
 first of all, the, the good news is the, the encryption is only at the sector or cluster level,
 depending upon what type of encryption you're using. So, so the granularity of loss is no larger for
 encrypt and encrypted drives than it is for non encrypted drives. As for data recovery software,
 I can't speak to any other applications, but I know that spin right will work just fine.
 It won't care that it's being asked to recover the data and the sectors on an encrypted volume,
 because spin right deals with the, with the drive at the hardware level underneath the encryption,
 underneath the file system. So it will recover the data on a sector, even one that it can't understand,
 it still does data recovery. And I would imagine that even a recovery system that works at the
 file system level, if what you're saying is true that the encryption is sector by sector,
 that so that, so the fat 32 or whatever the file allocation table, that's going to be the same,
 right? That's still going to work. Well, but except that the software would have to be
 viewing through the encryption. So you'd have to have something running.
 So it couldn't recover an encrypted file.
 I couldn't say, oh, well, here's the fat 30. Here's the fat. Here's where the things are.
 Let's recover those sectors. Again, it's impossible to be accurate. I mean,
 you have to know exactly how the software was working to know and what the nature of the damage
 was to know whether it was going to be able to help you. Okay. But a qualified yes, it's okay.
 Yes. And well, and certainly in the case of Spinrite, I know how Spinrite works,
 and it will have no problem at all. But definitely, there is no greater loss of,
 there's no greater loss potential. It's not like you lose as this guy asks the entire
 encrypted volume, if you do lose a sector. I mean, any more than if it were not encrypted.
 On something like TrueCrypt where it's making a big blob of encrypted data, that's risky.
 Yes. Well, except that internally, it's going to individual file sectors are being encrypted
 standalone. I guess the point is that no sector depends upon any other sector.
 There's no blanket problem that is being increased by just encrypting individual
 sectors because each one stands alone. You may not know where a file begins and ends,
 but each sector stands alone. So if you lose a sector, you've only lost whatever that sector
 belongs to, not everything else. No interdependency. Okay, that makes sense.
 Joe Roderick's in Massachusetts asks, I'm over my head here, but I'm curious. Why can't a kernel
 be more like a man? Oh, no, no, no. Why can't a kernel, kernel pickering? Why can't a kernel?
 This is inspired by the Vista kernel lockdown talk we had earlier. Why can't a kernel have an
 MD five or other hash on a non-ritable medium, say a burn CD of a kernel hash that could be
 installed? So at least the kernel can be aware it's been modified. Oh, that's interesting. So you've
 got an MD five checksum on it. You've put it somewhere that can't be modified, then you could
 validate whether that kernel's been changed or not. He says, I'm sure something along these
 lines could be helpful. Is he right? No. And that's because but it's a great question, which is why
 it's here. Well, it's because the kernel is is the thing that would be doing the testing of itself.
 Right. You'd have to use an external operating system to check the kernel.
 Well, exactly. Well, you know, and we when we talked a long time ago about the idea of of using
 a an external in the case of rootkit detection, using something outside to look in and check for
 modifications that a rootkit had made to the OS. That's how rootkit revealer works. It's its own
 operating system, essentially. Exactly. So the problem here is that the kernel,
 if the kernel could be and this is the reason I wanted to bring this up is that it it it makes
 it more clear, I think, that that nothing can protect itself at the same level of capability.
 Malware and anti-malware are fighting on on a level playing field. Root kits and kernels are
 fighting in the kernel space on a level playing field. Anything the kernel can do a rootkit running
 at the same privilege level can undo. So there so the the first thing a rootkit might do is is
 neuter the kernel's check of itself. And there's no way the kernel could know that it had been
 neutered because it could be prevented from knowing that by the software which has been designed to
 prevent it. I mean, it's it's literally it's just not possible. The the only way we're going to get
 this problem resolved is eventually when we have a hypervisor running at a level above the kernel
 or below or depending on how you want to look at it, you know, more protected than the kernel,
 which is then able to enforce protection on the kernel. This is very much the way the kernel
 is able to enforce protection on user applications. And so, you know, it's sort of a hierarchy and at
 the moment, art did the current Windows technology doesn't have anything running at a level of that
 is more protected than the kernel. That's what we need. And only then will we actually have
 anything that that can be verifiably and like, usefully bulletproof. So so this is exactly why,
 as we said last week, kernel patch protection, while a good thing doesn't actually provide
 rootkit protection because root kits already exist that are able to to defeat it. The idea is
 this prevents, you know, as we said, good guys from modifying the kernel, which will which will
 finally allow Microsoft the flexibility of locking down the kernel at some point in the future,
 they just haven't gotten there yet. Oh, from Sweden, Simon Ling is worried about the future
 of third party firewalls and AV he writes. It seems like Microsoft wanted to prevent all
 third party kernel modification, which means, as I understand, there won't be any, for example,
 personal firewalls in the future, or did I miss something? Great question. It's certainly the
 case as we were just saying that Microsoft is determined on the 64 bit platforms to like draw
 a line in the sand and say, no more kernel modification, what they what they have done
 to compensate. And I mean, and I believe this really, I believe this fully that they really
 don't intend to prevent semantic and McAfee and the other personal firewall and AV vendors
 from being able to develop products. They just need to develop products that don't modify the
 kernel to make that more possible. And first of all, it has been possible. So they say, I mean,
 you there's a lot of dispute about that. I'm on the side of of believing that it has not been
 possible with to do the sorts of things McAfee semantic zone alarm and so forth are doing without
 reaching down and modifying the kernel, because Microsoft has non published API's and just hasn't
 provided the hooks to allow that Microsoft was the operating system was hostile to things
 mucking around in the kernel. So there's a huge amount of reverse engineering that was needed
 to be done in order to make this possible. But Microsoft is done with with the the next generation
 of Windows that is in Vista is they have published API's that will allow third party vendors to do
 what they want to do without needing to modify the kernel. There are there are some advanced API
 technologies, for example, one that allows a allow software drivers in the kernel to filter
 and monitor all of the network traffic coming and going through the machine without needing
 to modify the network stack. That's never been possible before. It is now possible
 in Vista because Microsoft has added that functionality. So so there are now ways in Vista for for
 third parties to successfully do what they want to do without needing the current the kernel to be
 modified. And I guess it also comes down to the question of should you should you let Microsoft
 and only Microsoft control what goes on at the kernel level. I mean, I think about Linux, for
 instance, where the kernels open source, it's published. There's no kernel protection. You can
 do anything you want. I mean, you can't modify a running systems kernel necessarily, but you could
 write your own kernel with all sorts of hacks in it. Sure, which is more secure though, the closed
 only Microsoft has access in here, clean room environment, or the open. Everybody understands
 what's going on environment. Right now, it's the open environment. Certainly, we need to remember
 that root kits were invented on Unix. That's true. I mean, that's where they came from.
 Yeah, good point. So so the the the the the it's actually fairly easy to to put a root
 kit on the system kind of think of it. Well, exactly. And the documentation, the open source
 of it, you know, makes it that much easier. So I mean, at the same time, we have the issue of,
 you know, doesn't having the open source mean that lots of people can look at the code and
 scrutinize it and work on ways to tighten it up more than Microsoft has with their closed source
 approach. I mean, we're not at the application level, or even the kind of the OS user interface
 level, we're at the kernel level. Right. And and there are there are two different issues
 that were sort of co mingling here. There's the issue of of open source, closed source, and and
 hypervisor, kernel protection versus kernel protect the the the the patch guard approach,
 which is just trying to detect modifications to the kernel, as opposed to absolutely
 preventing the modifications to the kernel. So I mean, it gets complex. I believe that that when
 Microsoft for their 64 bit systems has added a hypervisor, we're we're going to see a new era
 of security, because applications will not be able to muck with the kernel at all. Now,
 it is the case, though, that mischief could be performed by using the new API's. That is,
 if now you don't need to modify the kernel, yet you can hook the stack. And anybody who wants to
 can hook the stack, then nothing prevents malware from creating a driver, which they arrange to
 sign somehow. And driver signing is another thing that's been a bit enforced in the 64 bit kernel.
 So malware gets a signed driver that hooks the stack. Now it can talk out through the network,
 and potentially bypass the firewall. I guess it's what you've been saying all
 along. And I guess I've learned this lesson is there is no such thing as perfect security. It's a
 process. Yes. And there's always something. Yes. And and and, you know, doing the best job we can
 of keeping this stuff out of our machines in the first place is absolutely what you want to
 shoot for. You don't want to let stuff get into your system once it has. You just can't trust it.
 No subject. We don't talk a lot about spam is on Paul's mind. He's fed up with spam. He writes
 from the UK spam, spam, spam, spam, spam, security. Now is preaching to the converted on firewalls,
 bots, spyware, etc. I doubt any of security now as listeners, PCs are sources of spam. I hope not.
 The fact is that there are millions of PCs out there that are vulnerable to being sources of
 spam. And there always will be because they don't listen to security now. Leo said recently that his
 email filters catch a million spam emails a month. True. As effective as spam filtering might be the
 long term solution. This problem has got to be applied at source. Otherwise, the pipes will stay
 clogged. The solution has got to involve security. I'm not sure I'd agree with him on this. I would
 like to hear your views on how it can be done. Should SMTP, the the mail transport protocol be
 replaced over time? Should we adopt the proprietary email authentication is proposed by Microsoft?
 There are others, by the way, that are not proprietary. Should LSP limit users to 1,000
 messages a month? Should all email be certificated or has the horse already bolted through the open
 stable door? Yes, a lot of questions. Well, yeah, and I liked it because he sort of painted a picture
 of the way things are today. You know, the famous thought and he announced that spam would be
 conquered. He announced this two years ago, and it's long past the deadline. But he thought
 authentication was a solution. Well, and I actually am a fan of that, you know, in that famous
 twit that I participated in a long time ago, which generated Devorax, I get no spam comment,
 where he was he was complaining that my email gateway was rejecting his email because it used
 HTML. And what I had found was that by blocking HTML email, the 99% of the spam GRC was receiving
 was blocked. And I was bouncing email, I was bouncing a message back saying, I'm sorry,
 we don't expect that we don't accept HTML email, please send, you know, text only email, we'd love
 to hear from you. And you know, and Devorax style email, it made for some great comedy on twit. I'm
 wondering if that still works, by the way, your HTML filter, because a lot of my spam now is just
 embedded GIFs is not HTML, it's just a picture. Yeah, well, what I did, as you know, Leo, is I
 finally gave up my original email address. I mean, I was just Steve at grc.com for, well, forever,
 for 20 years. And and as happens, I mean, and you know this, because you know, your your email
 address is well known publicly. And and what I have seen, because I've looked at at remote servers
 connecting to my server, I've watched the traffic, I see them just guessing names, people who never
 had accounts at grc, ever. I mean, most of my spam is that doing dictionary attacks, just going
 through a list of first names and second names, I mean, everything that they can come up with,
 trying to get something, right, you know, to find a legitimate account. What I did was,
 I changed my email address to finally, after all that time, basically, after giving up to to something
 not in any dictionary that is no longer guessable and bang, problem solved. So I then removed the
 HTML filter. Now people can send anything that they want to to us as long as they have our addresses.
 And this was important also for sales and support, because I wanted people, you don't want to block
 customers emails. Exactly. Now, I have to say there is an issue, because they have to know
 what your new address is, you change it regularly. I don't want to say too much because I don't want
 to give away your algorithm. Right. And we do have the addresses for sales and support are on our
 webpage. So, you know, and the current addresses is in every receipt that they receive after they
 purchase and write blah, blah, blah. So I mean, we've basically closed the loop so that nobody is
 inconvenienced and dodged all of this, this flood of spam. But nobody can get your email address.
 Correct. And so the idea is, I can't do this because I can't do it. I miss it on my email.
 You're too dependent upon that. I mean, and it is painful to change one's email address after
 you've, you know, had it for a long time. I mean, I really understand that. I should pull it out,
 though, that everything we've talked about so far really is filtering. I mean, even that is a form
 of filtering. Correct. Correct. So, so the first thing I would tell people is, if you finally give up
 and I talk to people more and more who have given up trying to fight this, I mean, they're like me
 who were like, you know, really annoyed that this was happening. And just, you know, filtering it
 and, you know, basically, Leo, it's exactly what you're doing is using anti spam filters to stem
 the flood and try to find the good email from the bad. And in fact, you and I had a problem
 communicating because yours was false positivity on on email for me. So you had to explicitly
 allow me. You were getting through the primary server side filtering. It was the the secondary
 or the actually was the secondary filter that was capturing you spam assassin.
 Right. So I used to step filtering, but he makes a good point, which is that doesn't solve the root
 cause. Correct. So the one thing I wanted to say was that if anyone finally does give up and change
 email addresses, do something that is not going to be in a dictionary. Because if you just use
 your same like your first name or whatever you use that might be in a dictionary could be guessed,
 you'll find yourself immediately getting more spam. If you're Joe at earthlink.net, you're screwed.
 Basically, yes. That is not a Joe 537499 to be fine. Right. It's very cool, Joe, that you got,
 you know, that name at earthlink. But unfortunately, it's pretty much useless to you now.
 In fact, I think I got some email from an account. I think it was in fact, no, it was Joe@aol.com
 saying, yeah, this is my email address, but I can't use it. So please don't try to send me
 mail mail to the stress. The reason I got it was because a spam message was bounced back to him
 from, I guess, my address. Well, now what I wanted to address the second part of this and what I,
 and that is this issue of authentication. The technology, which I really like, and I'm using it,
 and it's becoming more and more pervasive, is this notion of authenticating the source of email.
 It's this SPF technology, which is Microsoft tried to sort of adopt it and then, you know,
 quote, what was that old expression, extend and enhance or something, which basically means
 embrace and extend was the original idea, but then we call it extended of hours, what we ended up
 calling them. Exactly. And they were unable to, because it turns out that this was bigger than they
 were and unembraceable and unextendable. Really? Well, they wanted to patent it and license it,
 and people said, no, we're not going to adopt some Microsoft thing that, you know, that is not,
 you know, in the open domain, the good news is that this, this sender policy framework, SPF,
 is a really cool and simple addition, the, the, the, to, to an existing system, because all it
 requires is that some, some special DNS records be added to the, the DNS server of anyone who wants
 to generate email. So for example, GRC has a text record, which has been added to our DNS server
 that's, that says the addresses of the servers, either by domain name or IP, IP address or IP
 range that are valid originators of GRC mail. So any incoming mail to a third party, like say,
 Earthlink, that is, is using SPF, Yahoo is, Gmail is, so, so some email comes in apparently from,
 from me at, at grc.com, to, for example, the Earthlink server, it performs a DNS query,
 asking for the text records of grc.com, our DNS, over which we have absolute control,
 our DNS sends back these text records, among which is one that says, grc email will only be
 originated from these IP addresses. And what happens is, Earthlink knows the IP address
 from the, it has a connection to it. And as we know, IP addresses of, of valid TCP connections
 cannot be spoofed, because you have to have traffic succeed that in, in that three way handshake
 in order to, in order to get a TCP connection. And SMTP, which is the transport for email,
 uses TCP as its transport. So Earthlink absolutely knows the IP address of the server that's trying
 to send it mail ostensibly from grc. It does a DNS query to see whether that IP address,
 we are saying that as grc is saying, this is a valid source of grc email that allows it to authenticate
 my grc server as being the only source of grc mail. And if, if it works, it allows it, if not,
 it drops it. And I mean, it, it, it really is a great solution. It prevents these, you know,
 spam bots running in botnets from originating email from other sources. Now, unfortunately,
 this hasn't been adopted widely yet, but it is picking up and spreading because it is a simple
 thing to do. You said that Hotmail, Hotmail does it, Earthlink, does they all do it?
 I don't think they do. They have their own, as I remember, yeah, they had their own form.
 That's the problem. Yeah, there, there is a domain keys technology, which is another approach.
 I think that in fact, I think that's the one that Yahoo adopted was domain keys. And I don't know,
 for sure, whether Yahoo is also doing SPF, there's nothing to prevent servers from doing both. And
 it just checks to see, you know, which ones you're, you're using. I think Gmail is doing both. So,
 I'm okay, because I know that I've looked at my headers and I've seen, you know, that I've been,
 that GRC server has been authenticated by Gmail. So anyway, there are, there are things moving
 forward that just take time to adopt, which, you know, ultimately are going to help, although it's
 not clear that anything is a, is a complete solution. And boy, doing something like dropping SMTP and
 switching to a different protocol that we're talking about, obviously, in the entire email
 structure of the internet. I have to think, basically, spam is like cockroaches. We've tried to fight
 them for a long time, roughly 40,000 years with no success. And I think we're gonna take us that
 long, if not, yeah, I got to say, changing your address and protecting it works for a year, though,
 right? You change it regularly, because it doesn't work forever. I do, I do change it regularly,
 because after a while, you start getting spam. Yep. And if I just talked to Mark Thompson,
 my buddy at analog X this morning, who said that he's starting to get some on his current address,
 and he's looking forward to making a change, you know, next month, essentially, and switching over
 to a new address next year, about every year. So it does the same thing idea. Yeah. Yeah.
 So that's interesting. Have you started seeing spam? Because we're getting towards the end of the
 year. Nope. I haven't. Although I'm, you know, I'm very careful, as you know, because I've, I've said,
 Leo, you know, please give out your address to anybody about, about letting this thing escape.
 Yeah. No, I don't give your address to anyone. I always ask permission. I have to say that to be
 honest with you, I think there are larger problems with email. Even with all the filtering I do, I
 still get too many emails to respond to it's rapidly getting the level where I get too many emails to
 read. Yeah. Without spending hours a day on email, it's just too easy to send an email. When you're
 a public figure, you get too much. And I'm not Amber and I were talking about this. We're
 public enough to get a lot of of mail, but not successful enough to hire somebody to do it.
 So we're stuck. We're in that middle thing. You know, I'm sure President Bush has plenty of
 people answering his email. Well, and you know, speaking of that, I love the fact that these
 questions that we're discussing are from security now listeners. Right. And they go to the security
 now page down at the bottom of the page is a form that allows them to submit questions.
 It doesn't come in my email. It doesn't come in my email. Well, no, actually, it is a form
 submitted. It is email to me. And the problem is the same as Julie. I mean, I love that I get these,
 but I get so many of them that, for example, if I were to read them, let alone answer them,
 I could not be developing this new freeware that I'm excited about that I'll be announcing next week.
 So, you know, like you, I've had to make that trade off. So I really appreciate people writing.
 I just have to apologize if we're not able, if I'm not able to respond and we're not even able to
 answer your question because there's just so much. And I say the same thing. And you know what,
 it's sad because I get a lot of, I love my email. I get a lot of great stuff. And I do so far still
 read it all, but I just can't respond to it all. And I think it's rapidly time. The time will rapidly
 come where I can't even read it all. Yeah, I mean, I'm so easy to send an email. Anybody can do it.
 And it's just, yeah, it's a push of a button. And you get that if you get a thousand emails a day,
 you're just not going to read it all. Yeah. And so I think ultimately the problem may not be spam.
 The problem may be email. It's a larger problem here. But let's not get philosophical.
 Well, basically we're talking about developing larger communities of communicating users.
 Right. And I've got to say that, I mean, the news group solution that GRC has is fantastic
 because we have a security now news group at GRC, a forum there. And I mean, even that,
 I can't keep up with, but I dip in from time to time and see what's going on. And here we've got
 our security now listeners talking to each other, answering each other's questions and discussing
 things. And I mean, it's fantastic to be able to create that kind of, you know, online community.
 Absolutely. Greg Rudd in Seattle gets it. He writes, "If a computer becomes infected with malware,
 is running an anti-spyware program installed on the infected machine, a reliable method
 to delete the malware? How can any program running on an infected machine be trusted?"
 Yep. That's kind of the bottom line, isn't it? And that's why I said that he gets it. I mean,
 it is the golden rule that if your machine is ever compromised, you can never trust it again
 because we don't know what has happened. Now, increasingly, I've been telling people that on
 call for help. In the past, we would talk about how did this, in fact, how to get rid of viruses,
 but these things have gotten so nasty, so adept at burrowing into your system.
 Oh, and tenacious. You just can't take them out. You can't delete the files because then other
 things break because they've inserted themselves as a filter in between some other things. And you
 take that chunk out in the middle and you break the communication flow.
 You're killing the patient. So, I mean, yes, if all you can do is run a malware remover,
 then that's what you have to do. The better solution is to think about the structure of
 your machine. The best thing you can do is to set up a C partition, which is big enough for the OS
 and your applications. And that only needs to be maybe 15 gigs, depending on what you're doing,
 then have a D partition or, you know, D-E-F-G. I mean, it's funny, I run across people sometimes
 from the old DOS days who've got the whole alphabet covered. I mean, they're on my Q drive.
 I've got this. You know, there is removable drives. I always make WXYZ, like CD-ROMs and so forth,
 because then if I install something, it won't screw up anything I've installed on the CD-ROM,
 it's going to stay at the end of the alphabet. Well, the advantage to me of keeping my system
 partition small is that it can be imaged relatively practically. That is, I'm able to do an image
 and on to a couple DVDs or on to an external spinning, you know, firewire or USB drive.
 And so my point is that if malware infects you, it's infecting not your entire drive, but it's
 infecting your system partition. You know, that's, you know, it's not like you're going to have,
 although, you know, it wouldn't spread to a data partition. I mean, sometimes they do.
 Viruses will install themselves. Well, I mean, we've seen instances, for example,
 where JPEGs are carrying malware. So, but, you know, you have to ask yourself,
 what are people with 250 gig drives doing with the drive? That's, that can't be 250 gigs of
 programs. Certainly, most of it is music and movies and media files that are massive.
 So, so my point is that if you were to, if you were deliberately keep your system partition
 small, only as big as it needs to be. I mean, I've got a 17 gig partition on my main workstation
 that is, that's still only half full. This is everything I use is on, is, is in, you know, half
 of a 17 gig partition. I don't even know where I came up with 17, but it made sense one magic
 member. And so, so my point is that I can make images. It's practical to make an image of my
 C drive because I've kept it small. You just, it's not practical to make an image of a 250 gig
 C drive. I mean, okay, you could do it by using, you know, a dry, an external drive, but it's going
 to take a long time. And you're imaging all your media, which is, you know, much more transient
 and probably doesn't need to be, you know, well, basically doesn't need to be, be saved in the
 event of a malware, encourage you still drive snapshot to do your images. I'm going to get
 love drive. I love drive snapshot. It runs in windows. You don't need to leave windows. You're
 able to just to sort of, to just to run it on, for example, against the C drive, it makes a snapshot.
 And what's cool is they're mountable snapshots. So you're able to mount that as a drive letter
 if you want to poke around and get something from exactly from a prior snapshot. And, and so my
 point is that if you then got infected, if your data is separate from your, from your operating
 system, you can, you can restore your operating system from a, from a recent snapshot and not
 lose the data that you've been working on since. So I mean, increasingly, I think it really makes
 sense not to have everything is just one big blob in a C drive. I think, you know, as I'm getting
 ready to create this Vista machine, it's an opportunity to kind of sit down and think about
 these strategies. And I think that that's exactly what I'm going to do. I'm going to put it on the
 network, back up the partition, create a good Windows 64 Vista 64 partition, back it up as an
 image. And that way, if I should get spyware, I don't anticipate it. But if I get spyware or
 virus infection, I could quickly restore, yeah, to the way it was backing up is now becoming the
 best strategy of all. There is no interim in between thing to do. I really is true. You know,
 as I said, if all you can do is run anti-malware, that's all you can do. But if you've got an image,
 it's much better to restore an image. And you just know, you have the peace of mind that you've,
 you've stepped back in time to a point when your system was clean. Best time to do it when you
 get a new system. And then I guess, you know, this is what we always did on the TV show, we create a
 a couple of images, first an image of the just the installed OS. Yep. Then an image of the installed
 OS and applications. Yep. And then what is key is that you know that that's good because you
 haven't even gone online yet. And when you want to build a new image, perhaps with new applications
 or new drivers or more likely all the Windows updates, you actually go back to the known good
 image, restore that, add the applications at that time. And then move forward again. And then move
 forward from that point so that you're always moving from a known good spot. Yep. Otherwise,
 that's exactly my approach to. Yeah. Otherwise, you could be restoring a compromise system.
 That's the point nowadays. You can't tell. Well, and you know, it's funny too, because here we've
 only been talking about malware. But as we know, what is something about Windows, just kind of goes
 a little wonky over time. Yeah, it's a good thing to do anyway. I reinstall all the time.
 Exactly. So so so backing up to a known good point and then installing a few more apps and
 then moving forward, well, installing a few more apps and then making an updated snapshot,
 it does allow you to sort of reset your your Windows system to a like an almost new condition.
 Right. I this is where a gigabit ethernet and a big terabyte NAS backup system is really helpful,
 because anything that I put on my network, then partition or rather a snapshot out to that. Yep,
 terabyte storage, and I have a number of good images. They're not even on the system. But as
 long as I can get on the network, I can do it. Right. Eric and San Jose is in the market for a
 powerful new machine. I'm interested to know your opinion and maybe have some explanation on computer
 hardware. Oh, good. This is fun. I was looking for the most advanced systems on Dell and found
 only the servers have the option for dual quad core processors. I think he's looking at Zions seems
 to me any enthusiast would want that. Well, is it better to buy a server to get the latest in
 performance? They definitely cost more is the difference between computers designed for home
 versus business versus servers in terms of performance and quality. I know the business level tech
 support is better, but do these systems offer higher levels of performance and quality control
 as well? I can answer one thing. A lot of this comes down to Intel and the fact that they won't let you
 sell a Xeon based computer as anything as a computer as a desktop. It's sold as a workstation
 or a server. That's just a branding thing. They tell Dell you can't call it a desktop computer.
 Interesting. So if they're always at least a workstation. Yeah, I've been looking at that too,
 as a matter of fact, because as I think I mentioned, I'm still running Windows 2000 on an aging hardware
 plats time. Time for a Dell. Dude, I've got a pair of I've got a pair of 866 megahertz Pentium
 two or three. I think Pentium three here. What are you using that for? Well, the problem is it's
 so hard to move. I mean, I've got this fantastic mature environment, mature age home, but sure,
 it does. And as a matter of fact, when I mean, it's an extra blessing. I look at all the crud that I
 have installed in this thing over the years. And it's amazing. It still runs. Yeah. I think it's
 time for a new system, Steve. And so my point is that obviously I don't change hardware often
 because I mean, this is proof of it because I'm here. I am running on old dual P three 866.
 And so my point is since I don't have one of those for a doorstop, actually, right. So my
 so my point is since I don't update my hardware often, when I do go through the pain of switching
 to a new platform, I want to reach far ahead. I mean, like beyond what I need now, knowing that
 I'll probably be stuck with it for the next, you know, five or 10 years. That's kind of what I did
 when I bought the Mac Pro. I mean, that's what I what we're working on right now is a quad processor.
 It said dual Z ons, dual dual dual dual dual core. Right. And I'll tell you, I feel like I'm reaching
 into the future. I can't get this thing, you know, more than 10 or 20% usage. Well, that is,
 that is where I'm going to go. I'm going to go to a dual dual core. I think good dual quad core,
 maybe a little overkill. Well, I think that's one reason to answer this guy specifically.
 That's an awful lot. I mean, that's what I have. But that's just because that's silly. I'm silly.
 What I have found. Yeah. Well, what I have found doing some research and I was just looking at all
 the Intel motherboards available is that, you know, you you want to look at what kind of audio,
 what kind of video, how many of what type of PCI slots you've got, and then what the maximum
 amount of memory is and what type of processors and how many you're able to put on the motherboard.
 So those are sort of the things that that, you know, completely aside from branding
 and what you're going to call it, whether it's called a workstation or a server, blah, blah, blah.
 You know, Intel does make high end workstation motherboards that are dual processor, dual core.
 So you can go to the high end of the workstation or the low end of the server and sort of get,
 you know, basically what you want. I like to run a lot of displays. I've got three in front of me.
 I will definitely go to a system that allows me to run three displays because I'm just
 hooked on the idea of being able to have that much screen real estate. I can't imagine, you know,
 going back to a single display now for my main system. So I need to be able to have enough PCI
 slots to put graphics cards in in order to run, you know, large LCD panels. So that's that's a
 consideration for me. I don't care about audio for my workstation. That's not a, you know,
 it's not a media machine. Oh, and having integrated RAID is I think now that RAID is on motherboards
 to a greater and greater degree, just having it built on to the motherboard. So you can run
 three drives in a RAID five and just know that no matter what happens, you're going to be okay.
 For any next generation system, I think at least running a mirror and maybe even a RAID five makes
 a lot of sense on the computer or as an external system. Lots of motherboards build it in. I know
 that Intel has about this though, because and this actually is an important question to me.
 My impression of most of the motherboard RAID controllers is that they were software,
 their biospaced RAID controllers, not hardware RAID controllers.
 Yes, that's the case. So, but RAID five would require hardware.
 I know that I know that Intel's motherboard says they support RAID five.
 See, I have some questions about how good the RAID five implementation would be.
 Well, you're right. Although I have seen when when you boot free BSD, for example, or maybe it's
 Linux, I think it's Linux in fact, where it runs through a bunch of tests to determine what the
 optimal RAID strategy would be using different approaches for like generating RAID checksums
 and and and RAID images. And the performance is really getting pretty far up there.
 And you need something for one of those extra cores to be doing.
 True, you have enough processor now that you could. The right software rate isn't such a bad thing.
 So RAID zero is striping, which speeds up the writes and reads, although again, in our tests
 on biospaced software, mother, you know, the motherboard's rates, we haven't seen much improvement.
 There's RAID one, which is mirroring, and that's for redundancy. I have some issues with that,
 frankly, too, because in my experience, you shouldn't count on that as a backup by any means.
 And then RAID five, which is using three drives, right? Don't you have to have three drives for
 RAID five? A minimum of three, yes. So you're doing you're doing both striping and mirroring.
 Or is it only mirroring? It's actually neither. It's a very sophisticated approach where basics
 are redundancy approach, though. It's a redundancy approach, but it's much better. See,
 a striping is zero redundancy. Mirroring is 100% redundancy. RAID five, you get an extra drive of
 sort of checksum information. And so if any one of the three dies, the system is able to rebuild
 the dead drive from the data in the other two. You're just swapping to drive in. And that's
 how my NAS storage works. It's a RAID, it's three drives, RAID five. Now, see, in my case,
 for a personal workstation, I'm not at all concerned about drive performance, because drive performance
 is already so far beyond what a workstation needs, that it's just not a concern for me.
 I'm not that way. I agree with you, though, Steve. I think especially, well, for instance,
 on this quad core, I think your I/O bound, you have so much processor performance that you are
 I/O bounding now. Yeah, I guess my point, though, is that for workstation, that is for me sitting at
 here, you know, doing email. Well, you could go back to that P3. You'd be fine. That's why I'm so
 happy right now with my P3. But not everybody. I mean, but if you're doing anything demanding,
 editing video or ripping CDs or anything like that, hard drive performance does become important.
 I put a Raptor in almost everything I do, a 10,000 RPM drive.
 Then I certainly agree. And I agree, then, that you know, not only do you want to get off the
 motherboard so that you're not doing software-based RAID, but you probably want some caching on a
 separate RAID adapter so that the OS is able to dump data onto the RAID and move on. And then the
 RAID uses its on-card cache and write stuff out to the RAID asynchronously. You really want that
 that additional overlapping. I believe I have that in my in front terabyte NAS.
 So do we answer Eric's question? I don't remember what his question was. Let me go back and look,
 I haven't written down here. He wants to, he's just basically asking all about hardware,
 and he wanted to know quad, dual quad core, which I think we're both saying is not necessary for
 most applications. You'd get more benefit from, say, a faster video card or a faster hard drive
 than you would from having four cores. I can't imagine anything other than a compute, bound,
 high-end server, or somebody who's doing tons of media compression or 3D rendering or something
 like that. Yeah, exactly. 3D rendering or media compression. I mean, I pin my processors when I'm
 compressing media, and the hard drive just kind of flickers, flickers, flickers, flickers,
 because all of the time is spent by the processor doing, you know, MPEG-2, MPEG-4
 compression. So you should come over here and use my Mac Pro, because this thing is fast.
 Or get one of my own. Yeah, you think it's fast on that kind of stuff that's as fast as I've
 ever seen. That's very cool, because it's a pain. I mean, my solution is having multiple machines
 just running in the background. It's funny, too, because I keep wanting to write and to, you know,
 I have my little my little window gizmo called Whizmo that is like all kinds of little features
 that I've added. I want to add to it the ability to monitor a system for how busy it is and to start
 ringing a bell, you know, playing a media file, as soon as its level of busyness changes,
 because I'll start a compression on a computer and forget that it's running, you know, and come
 back hours later when it's been done for a long time and wish that I had something that notified
 me when it was through. Right, right. So I guess to answer his question most specifically, he's asking
 should I get a server or a computer? There are really three choices. There's computer, workstation,
 or server. Servers are really tuned for being servers. You don't need a server. If you want
 quad core, you can get a workstation. But I think Steve and I agree, even though I bought one,
 I don't think most people need a quad core workstation. I completely agree. And Leo,
 talk about expense going exponential. Yeah. Those are pretty quick. Oh, those things are just so
 expensive. But see, I was buying for the future. I shouldn't have to buy another computer for
 quite some time. That's the plan, which will be sad. Yeah, because that's part of the joy of life.
 So that's why I got this laptop, right? Matt Carroll of Mill, walkie, Wisconsin.
 Wants a bit of clarification. In episode 65, you discussed configuring your regular
 male client outlook, for instance, to access Gmail via pop an SMTP with an SSL connection.
 Does that mean if my PC is connected to an unencrypted open Wi-Fi connection,
 and I send or receive email using an email client configured to use SSL, the messages
 cannot be intercepted by someone sniffing the connection. In other words, is it safe to transmit
 email using outlook or a similar client via an open Wi-Fi connection if I'm using SSL?
 Yes, it is. I thought you were going to say no, because sometimes it opens up the connection
 in SSL, but then reverts back to unencrypted, doesn't it? Not not pop an SMTP.
 Ah, okay. Exactly like using a secure website where the SSL connection is established first,
 it cannot be sniffed, it cannot be spoofed, and you then you then have an encrypted tunnel
 through which all of your email traffic goes. We should point out that on web-based servers,
 however, this is not the case necessarily. You need to be careful with Gmail, as long as you do,
 as long as you go to it with https colon slash mail dot Google dot com, as long as your initial
 contact to the server is secure, after you log in, you stay secure. Whereas, if you go HTTP colon
 slash last, that is you first go to it non-secure, then only your login is secure and Gmail
 reverts to insecure afterwards. Yeah, and I think people get fooled by that.
 But in his case, yes, if you are, if you're using SSL with pop an SMTP, you can absolutely not be
 sniffed. Now, if you're using open Wi-Fi, unencrypted blah, blah, blah, you know, of course,
 there are other concerns that you would need to be aware of, but certainly at least your email
 would be safe. Yes. Yes. In fact, that's what I do. I still use VPN, but I do do that at least.
 So if I forget to turn on the VPN or whatever, my email say, I mean, the first thing you want
 to protect is your email password, but then it's nice to protect your email too. Yeah.
 Eric Sarat of Asheville, North Carolina, catching up on back podcast. He had a question about drive
 capacity. I know Steve mentions getting the smallest drives you can find. Is there an ideal
 size? I mean, you can get 500 gig drives now. Is it better to get a 160 or a 100 gig drive?
 He said, I can actually get drives down to one or two gigabytes. Obviously, it's too small.
 By the way, I usually get the old PATA drives. Is anything faster is usually a waste of money
 for my computing needs. But if you recommend scuzzy, Ugg, or a SATA, S-A-T-A, I would be open to
 this given your reasoning is P-A-T-A-I-D-E. Yes. P-A-T-E is the original IDE style. I thought there was a
 parallel A-T-A. I get it. Okay. Exactly. Parallel versus serial. I thought it was an interesting
 question because I did talk about deliberately asking my computer supplier guy when I'm buying
 drives just for random use here. You know, what's the smallest drive I can still get?
 No. These are applications though. For example, GRC is a server. I think I'm running a pair
 of 40 gig drives in a mirror on one of my servers. This is not the main GRC server. There I've got
 scuzzy RAID 5. But there are many applications where I just don't need... I just know I'm not
 going to have lots of media files and I don't need that much space. So given that I don't need
 that much space in that application, I'll get the smallest drive I can just because I like them
 better. I trust them more. But most end users I think are now obviously going for the 160s and
 the 200s and so forth. You'll get a kick out of this Leo. I just increased the 80 gig drive
 in my Macbook Pro to 160. Why? Because I'm doing more with it now.
 Open music on it and stuff. And media stuff. Yeah.
 And it turned out that 80 gigs was just... It was cramping me. Yeah.
 So there's an example where Mr. Get the Smallest Drive You Can has just gotten the biggest drive.
 What's the optimum? That's the biggest laptop drive. What's the optimum side? There is no magic
 number. Is there? No. There's no point beyond which... Your problem is aerial density gets so
 high. So much data on a square inch that you're concerned about reliability.
 Yes. In fact, the drive I bought, I bought a 160 gig C-gate S-A-T-A, which is what goes in the
 Macbook Pro. And it's C-gate's first vertical recording drive, which is storing the bits standing up
 instead of laying down, which is technology we've been hearing about for a decade now.
 And it's finally beginning to make it out of the lab into production.
 What I would say, the other concerns other than just cost and size is power consumption and heat.
 And this is really the other reason I wanted to put this question in here is that
 bigger, faster, larger drives do tend to generate more heat and burn more power.
 Certainly the case with your 10K RPM drives, Leo, I'm sure those guys are running a lot hotter.
 So you want to make sure that your power supply has enough oomph to run all the drives and the
 super speed processor and all that stuff. I mean, this stuff all ends up consuming a lot of power.
 A lot of that power is translated into heat. So your system also needs to be able to get rid of
 the heat. There have been some interesting cases where you'll see like computer furniture
 that's got a really nice enclosure for your computer that's not ventilated. And it's like,
 what are these people thinking? You put any computer in there and close the door,
 and this thing's just going to cook inside. Well, you're paying free, you might run fine.
 Nowadays, you're right. You know, it's funny because this new laptop I got for Vista,
 the choice was a bigger 5,400 RPM drive or a smaller 7,200 RPM drive. And even though I know
 there's lower battery life, more heat and now have less capacity, it's only an 80 you could drive.
 I still ordered the 7,200. Yep. Because this machine won't be a main primary machine for me,
 so speed is what I'm looking for on this. I completely agree. Yeah. And 80 gigs,
 that's enough unless you start putting media right files on there, which I'm not planning to.
 It is Windows after all. Let's see here. Rodney writes from Trinidad in the West Indies. Nice
 to have you listening in the West Indies, Rodney. You're probably having better weather than we are.
 Regarding network firewalls, can you guys bypass a network firewall to use a downloading program?
 He wants to use a peer-to-peer program like SoulSeek LimeWire. He says, "Is that possible to bypass a
 network firewall DSL connection?" I'm thinking this guy's got an IP that's blocking peer-to-peer
 networks. Well, to me, saying network firewall, I was thinking he was inside of the operation.
 Yeah. Well, but I think as I remember in the Caribbean, a lot of the ISPs
 act this way as well. In that case, this is where some sort of VPN is your friend. The only way
 to really bypass a network firewall is to create a true VPN tunnel that is a virtual private network,
 and I would suggest that Rodney go back and listen to our VPN episodes where we cover this topic
 extensively and basically use a supplier. This is not somewhere that Hamachi would work because
 Hamachi is a peer-to-peer VPN that's used to create a tunnel between machines. What Rodney wants
 is a tunnel out to a VPN supplier, somebody who is selling a VPN service. So the peer-to-peer
 network would actually be connecting to that service and then tunneling the peer-to-peer traffic
 through the tunnel, through the corporate firewall or the ISP firewall into his machine.
 I can't even remember now, the name of the VPN service that we liked and then have used.
 Hot Spot VPN.
 Hot Spot, exactly. Hot Spot VPN would be a perfect example of someone who could do that.
 It would allow you to use a peer-to-peer network and he mentioned SoulSeek and LimeWire and so
 forth as a couple. But basically, all of your ports would then be available even if your local
 network were filtering them and preventing that kind of behavior. Yeah, that's about it, huh?
 And the ISP couldn't block a VPN, could it? Well, sure. They could block and this is typical of,
 for example, PPTP and L2TP and all those crazy acronyms when we were talking about VPNs.
 The good news is that modern VPNs are using SSL technology in order to use non-traditional VPN ports
 and then an ISP is not going to be able to block you.
 Okay. Because they won't know what to look for.
 Right. Brian Voller writes from Ashland, Oregon, USA, Earth.
 Did he write that? Yeah, he did.
 We're glad to know what planet you're listening on, Brian.
 That is his location and a big shout out to all of our listeners in other parts of the galaxy.
 You have mentioned several times how 64-bit Vista will not allow unsigned kernel drivers,
 thus breaking some devices that require them. It's not that they require them. They just haven't
 written them yet. I'm wondering how much of a problem this will be with old hardware. I
 understand why antivirus software needs to be deep in the kernel. But what about things like
 printers, webcams, video, TV tuner cards, it should have no need to modify the kernel in the first
 place. I find it hard to believe that something as delicate as kernel modification has become
 so commonplace that it's used instead of regular APIs. Unless, of course, this is poetic justice
 for Microsoft for hoarding all the good APIs. All the good APIs are taken. Would it be possible
 for Vista to allow old unsigned 32-bit kernel drivers to run in some kind of protected or
 isolated mode like Dawson Windows 98? Well, where do we begin?
 The kernel is a different dog from applications. So it's certainly the case, for example,
 that DOS apps are able to be hosted in a so-called DOS box and not know that they're not
 just running on old 16-bit DOS. Similarly, 32-bit apps we know will be compatible with 64-bit,
 well, they are compatible with 64-bit XP and they will be compatible with 64-bit Vista. The 64-bit
 OSs expose a completely compatible 32-bit API for those applications to use. The problem is that
 kernel drivers are actually a part of the kernel. There's no way that you could run a 32-bit
 driver which has not been recompiled for 64 bits. There's no way you could run that driver
 in a 64-bit kernel. So let's just have to write a new driver, that's all.
 Yes, yes. Now, you could imagine-- There's no protected mode.
 Because isn't that where we ran 16-bit drivers in 32-bit?
 Right. Well, and in fact, the way to think of it is that the driver is underneath that protected
 mode level. It's participating with the operating system. It's not being served by the operating
 system. Now, it happens that Windows I/O architecture in the kernel is also sort of-- sort of has a
 client-server approach. So I could imagine that somebody could write an emulation layer
 that would allow 32-bit well-behaved drivers to be hosted in a 64-bit environment. For example,
 free BSD, now that the latest version of free BSD runs Windows drivers. So you could literally use
 Windows drivers on free BSD. It's done that by emulating the whole device driver interface
 to a Windows driver. The problem is that a Windows driver that then also tried to make kernel
 modifications, well, you can imagine there's no Windows kernel on free BSD. So that would just
 explode completely. And similarly, if a 32-bit driver that was being hosted by this hypothetical
 64-bit, 32-bit driver compatibility thing, if it tried to make any modifications to the kernel,
 that would explode too. So you could imagine that a well-behaved 32-bit driver could theoretically
 be hosted by some special, really cool layer-- An envelope thing. An envelope that sort of encapsulated
 it and pretended to be 32-bit Windows when it really wasn't. Still, if that was an ill-behaved
 driver, there's no way that would work. And we don't want it a 2-bit kernel there.
 We don't want it. The point of having 64-bit, if you're going to run 64-bit, is running 64-bit
 drivers. Don't be silly. Don't try to run 32-bit drivers. It seems to me that this really does
 make a nice sort of a cut point where older hardware that has to have older drivers is just
 going to be stuck with 32-bits. And it's going to only be the currently supported drivers. I mean,
 it's not like converting these things from 32-bits to 64 is a huge problem. You have a 64-bit C
 compiler. You just recompile. You recompile. You need to change some things, but it's not like,
 I mean, basically, the whole aisle architecture has pretty much stayed the same in Vista.
 So it's not like you're having to write the driver from scratch. You just need to expand it
 to 64-bits. And then-- And the compiler should do most of that, right? Unless you've got some sort
 of dependency on register size. Yep. The compiler does most of it, and then you run it through
 various driver certification suites that Microsoft provides. That's the problem, because that's
 expensive. To verify that it all works. Yeah. And that's why a lot of people won't do this,
 because they don't want to spend the money. Until there seems to be a big market for this.
 Yeah. We definitely have the chicken and egg. The good news is that my Vista had all the drivers
 for my hardware out of the box. And it may very well be that Microsoft recognizing this chicken
 and egg problem has got so many drivers built in to Vista now, both 32 and 64-bit, that this is
 not going to be as big a problem as some of us fear. We really won't know until we start playing
 with it. Yeah. And I think really underscore, you shouldn't be using 64-bit. And trying to get
 32-bit things to work on it. If you've got 32-bit devices that drivers that you need
 can stay with 32-bit Windows. It's just time to say goodbye to those. Yeah. Or get rid of them.
 That's right. But to try to make them work under 64-bit is misguided to say the least.
 I think so. Sheldon Smith in Minneapolis has been thinking about security. He writes,
 I've been listening to the security now podcast since the very first day just finished 65. He's
 a couple behind listening to the discussions of security makes me wonder why Windows has
 so many holes back in the early 80s before DOS digital equipment corp created a 32-bit operating
 system called VMS. It was designed to be secure from the start since then it's been evolved to
 use the first deck alpha. So first to use decks alpha. So then now HP's open VMS runs on the
 itanium which is alpha-based. In 20 some years have been no viruses. Mostly because I don't think
 they're very many people running it. That's where we're headed here. And only a handful of worms
 or Trojans. The stack grows up instead of down. Just as you often say would be a good idea. Also,
 there are no problems from buffer overflows. And the hardware has always supported hardware
 address protection. So even if data were to overflow, the hardware has stonewalls for the data from
 overwriting regions of code or having an executable stack. And customers have systems
 with uptime measured in years and clusters with uptime measured in over a decade. And new
 systems are still being installed. Of course, I like my Windows XP notebook. It's great for
 writing documents and playing games. This is a common kind of thing we hear from people who run
 Big Iron. Well, why doesn't Big Iron have the same problems computers have? I wanted to mention
 this because it does touch on the Mac. And the reason that the Mac doesn't have as many problems
 as Windows is partially that it doesn't represent the same size of target that Windows does. And so
 certainly the reason that that decks VMS hasn't had virus problems is as you said, Leo. I mean,
 it's it's just not being used to the same level. And it's not being used by the same type of people.
 Remember that virus writers are often and not always, but often younger programmers and they are
 writing viruses for the for the systems they have. They don't have a PDP in the basement.
 Right. Exactly. You know, you cannot write a virus for an operating system you don't have
 because inherently you need to know it intimately. And so so what, you know, we're already beginning
 to see more, you know, a growth in Mac problems as the Macintosh becomes I will dispute that I
 haven't seen any growth in Mac problems. What really are you talking about? Well, I don't know.
 There's press all the time about quote Mac problems never in the wild. Okay, they're all
 hypothetical. Okay. Well, that's good. In fact, I would I'm not I agree with you that a lot of the
 reason why the Mac is protected is because it's you know, what you just said, but there's also
 a fundamental difference in the way it's written that provides more protection. I think we'll see.
 We'll see. I think there's a set of to attack the Mac right now just to prove it could be done.
 I think people are dying. The fact that the fact that Windows has these problems is really not
 Microsoft's fault. I mean, I don't mean, you know, I'm no apologist for Microsoft. I've been,
 you know, on them since day one for policy things. It is just so hard to catch all these sorts of
 problems. And I really have to believe that if the Mac were scrutinized to the same degree
 that Windows is, there would be problems there. On the other hand, having said that,
 things like active X, which which is inherently a bad idea. I mean, the Mac doesn't have those
 architectural mistakes. There's nothing you could call active X other than architectural mistakes.
 Has a real security model. You know, the idea that that IE can invoke non non IE
 active X controls, you know, rumbling around loose in the system and invoke overflows in those.
 I mean, that's just insanity. And so we're telling people to set the kill bit to prevent IE from
 having access to this act. That's crazy. So those are structural faults in Microsoft that, you know,
 now I'm sure they wish they hadn't done, just like they probably wish they had never allowed
 people to modify the 32 bit kernel. We see that Microsoft will never break compatibility.
 They'll just wait long enough to to find some point where they can start things fresh. I mean,
 active X was a was a clever componentized idea that they went too far with. So, so yes, this is
 what's making Windows very vulnerable today. I have to believe though that there are there are
 unknown problems in the Mac, which people may discover ultimately, although I doubt there will
 they will nearly be as significant as Windows. I think it's very clear that there are application
 level issues with some of the older Unix applications that are just kind of lying there on the Mac OS.
 Yep. We know that they're, you know, we know of those. The thing that I think protects us a little
 bit on the Mac is is just unless you're running as an admin, but even then there's a little
 protection, nobody really runs his route on OS 10. And it's a lot harder for somebody from the
 outside to get into your system and modify it, even given these exploits in these holes unless
 you're running bind. Yes. Well, I know it's 10. And there is another feature in Vista that we
 haven't yet covered because it's extensive. And that's called user account control, UAC.
 Right. They're trying to duplicate what's in the Mac. Yes, they are. And so again, it means,
 and I mean, it's so extensive. We're going to do an entire episode on UAC in Vista,
 because it is extensive. And it is, well, it's wonderful, but it's also a mixed blessing because
 you're being hounded by this thing all the time, even if you're running as an admin.
 They turned off. It did for a while. You had to enter the password a bunch of times. Now you
 just get a, and I don't know if this was a good idea. They made it simpler for the user.
 Yeah, it keeps popping up. Are you sure dialogue? Yeah, but you can just click OK now.
 Or I should say, is this you dialogue? Yeah, a little warning, but you don't have to enter a
 password anymore. Yep. And I'll be interested. I think the most vulnerable novice users
 just click OK all the time. And that's the problem.
 Jonathan Green, a listener from London asks, I'm running mostly Macs and a PC behind a
 net gear wireless router at home. The last question, by the way, this might be the longest
 security now ever. I might have to divide this into two parts. I'm running mostly Macs and a PC
 behind net gear wireless router at home and I've set it up to be what I believe as fairly secure.
 However, when I take my laptop out on the road or connect it to a corporate router,
 how can I be sure that I'm secure? What steps can I take within my laptop rather than the router
 to be more safe? I noticed we're doing a shields up test at home. Everything is stealth.
 When I try the same test connected wirelessly to a work router away from home,
 some ports are open. Is it possible to make any security provisions on the laptop itself?
 Well, what's happening in this case is that Jonathan is confusing the local security of his
 laptop and the security of the router. When he's at home, as he says, behind his net gear wireless
 router and he uses security now, we are testing the public IP, which is that IP of his router.
 As we know, net is very good security as long as you have universal plug and play disabled.
 He's seeing stealth at home not because his laptop is secure. He could have no firewall,
 for example, running on his laptop and he would still see stealth at home because we're testing
 and any hacker is attempting to penetrate through the public IP that is the IP of the router
 and it just blocks it cold. Now, if in his corporate environment, he runs shields up and he sees open
 ports. Again, if this is a router and not just some sort of a non routing gateway, then again,
 the router's IP is what's being tested. So it means that the machine on the border in his corporate
 network has some ports open. Now, it's very likely that it has ports open. For example,
 it probably needs port 25 open in order for the corporate network to be able to receive incoming
 SMTP email. They may have port 80 open if there's a corporate web server running on the network.
 So so corporate corporate routers, corporate NAT routers, which are connecting the corporation
 to the net, they're inherently going to be offering services to the public, which your typical home
 user is not doing. So a home user will be stealth. A corporate router will probably not be. But in
 both cases, his laptop behind that router is probably safe. What you definitely want to do,
 though, again, in both cases is be running your local firewall on your laptop. And this really goes,
 you know, for all users, it's nice to have the router protecting you, but it's still a good thing
 to run the firewall on your local machine. I know that you and I do, Leo, you know, on my max,
 I've got the Mac firewall turned on all the time. And of course, then there's also the open or
 the hotspot VPN that we talked about, which would be another way to secure it. Right.
 Would that give you that wouldn't change how your shields up is responding, though?
 Well, it exactly wouldn't do that. Well, shields up would then be testing the hotspot server.
 Right. And they've got a bunch of ports open. I remember, because I was doing that at one point,
 I was, I was interested in seeing what ports the VPN server had open. And also running a VPN
 wouldn't necessarily protect you from other access of your laptop by local people who are accessing
 your laptop's IP. The tunnel would only be allowing you to get a tunnel connection to the internet.
 So really, you know, the short answer to Jonathan's question is, just run, make sure you've got your
 software firewall up and running on your laptop. All right. And with that, we conclude this marathon
 episode, holy kamole of security. Now, we thank our sponsor, a staro corporation makers of the
 great a staro security gateway for their support. I'm very pleased to say that they're going to
 stick with us through 2007. We just got word from them. And that's great. We're happy to have them as
 a sponsor from they, you know, very early on, not day one, but very early on a security now. And
 we're glad that they're continuing forward with us into the new year. Well, you know, Leo, you know,
 we're doing a good job for them. And we know that they're doing a good job for our listeners,
 because we get email from people saying, you know, hey, I tried a staro because you guys were,
 you know, we know that they're sponsoring security now. And you know, people really like it.
 Well, it's nice because you could try it for free. Now, if you're a home user, of course,
 you could just download the software and put it on any old beater PC. Maybe that to Pentium 3,
 you've got lying around to make a greatest star of security gateway. And then I think it's 79
 euros a year. If you decide that you want to subscribe to the all the additional updates, the
 antivirus and the anti spam and all that stuff, but the free software is very, very capable. Now,
 if you're a business, and you you want superior protection from spam, from businesses, viruses,
 from hackers, complete VPN capabilities, you get intrusion protection, content filtering,
 and an industrial strength firewall. I mean, this appliance is amazing. You can try it absolutely
 free by contacting a staro at www dot a s t a r o dot com, or call eight, seven, seven, the number
 four a s t a r o, I know a number of people who've tried this, and then gone on to become customers
 because they're so impressed. You can get a free trial of the star of security gateway appliance
 right there in your business. That's one eight, seven, seven, the number four a s t a r o, and we
 thank them for their support. Their ongoing support of security. Now it's really nice to have a
 sponsor that believes in the product so much. Steve Gibson's website is grc.com. That's where
 you'll find the 16 kilobit versions of this podcast for the bandwidth impaired and full transcripts,
 too. If you'd like to read along, this will be a long one. I'm sorry, Elaine. Oh, she's going to be
 typing today. And it's mostly my fault because I kept interrupting. Let's see what else. Oh,
 on that's where you'll find spin right, which is Steve's great product for hard drive recovery
 and maintenance. There is nothing better. I'm just going to say that there is nothing better. It's
 the granddaddy of these applications. And still the best version six now pays all my bills. Yeah.
 It's been right. It's been right. It's been right. Six GRC supports my coffee habit. Something's
 got to he's up to he's up to Quinti Venti lattes. If you want to hear Steve talk about that a little
 bit with Amber and and and me, he was on net at night, which is up on the twit network.
 Last Sunday, it was really fun. Really fun with you. Thanks for joining Amber again. Yeah, I miss
 Amber. She's she's doing great at city TV, though. And, you know, I'm trying to persuade her to
 follow us out to Vancouver, but I will be able to do that. She's happy where she is. Yep.
 Steve Gibson. Thank you. I'm happy to be wrapping this thing up. It's lunchtime.
 We'll have some lunch later. I'll talk to you next week. All right. We'll see you next Thursday
 on security. Security now.
