 This is Twit.
 Bandwidth for security now is provided by AOL Radio at aol.com/podcasting.
 This is Security Now with Steve Gibson.
 Episode 67 for November 23, 2006, the problem with Patch Card.
 Security Now is brought to you by Astaro, makers of the Astaro Security Gateway, on the web
 at www.astaro.com and by Dell.
 For this week's specials, visit twit.tv/dell.
 Well, the turkey dinner is over, the football game is done, maybe it's time to turn on a
 podcast or two, and you've made the right choice, my friend, because it's time for security
 now with Steve Gibson.
 Hello, Steve.
 Happy Thanksgiving Day.
 Hey, Leo.
 Great to be here.
 This is our Thanksgiving Day edition on Thursday.
 I always think of the big football game and the snows were coming down at Lambeau Field,
 and I really feel like this is it.
 We have to have some dramatic music, you know, it's only in the United States, and they've
 already had Thanksgiving a month ago in Canada and the rest of the world are going, "Thanks,
 wedding."
 Yeah.
 So we must go on.
 We must soldier on because we are an international podcast.
 No U.S. holidays for us, my friend.
 Yep.
 What is our topic of the moment?
 Well, I want to talk about, well, we got a bunch of errata stuff, and I want to talk
 about, in general, I want to really focus this week on Vista's kernel patch protection,
 because believe it or not, it's already been hacked and it doesn't work.
 Oh, boy.
 All right.
 We'll get to that in a second, but let's start by clearing up any issues from previous
 episodes here.
 Yeah.
 A bunch of stuff.
 One thing that happened was last week, I mentioned, or maybe it was a week before, that very
 cool little freeware utility all snap.
 Which were chilled, which we completely killed, unfortunately, most of the Google links point
 to an old site, which is on GeoCities, and almost immediately, our mention of all snap
 burned up the bandwidth, and they shut down the site.
 They got slashed dotted, essentially.
 I wrote to the author, I started serving the file myself so that we wouldn't zap GeoCities.
 A bunch of people downloaded it, and he explained, the author explained that he'd actually moved
 it.
 He's Canadian.
 I think I like University of Toronto or somewhere.
 I don't remember exactly where now, but anyway, so it's back up and around, and I just wanted
 to mention to anybody who might have tried to go there following the podcast, and not
 been able to get it, that I will on this week's show notes continue the link to the most recent
 version myself, and also put a link to the original site, because it is just a really
 cool little gizmo.
 I was amazed, because to me, it's like, OK, fine, but obviously, you are not alone in
 your love for this program.
 It's just cool to have the windows locked themselves to the screen borders.
 I just really like that.
 Also, I misspoke again, it was either last week or the week before, because we recorded
 two together.
 I'm sort of muddy in my mind which one was which, but I mentioned that I confirmed that
 accessing Gmail remotely over secure SSL connection worked, and you could set up an email client
 that way.
 The problem was, I stumbled over the issue of anonymity, and it's really dumb, too, because
 you may remember, Leo, that I hit one of my trips to Toronto.
 I talked about the three main browser-based email systems, Yahoo, Hotmail, and Gmail, and
 that only Google Mail, when you access them through a web browser, was anonymous, that
 if you sent email using either Hotmail or Yahoo, in the headers of the received mail,
 was the IP address from which the user was accessing Hotmail or Yahoo's website, making
 it not anonymous in that sense.
 It puts that in the headers, yes, sort of embeds it gratuitously.
 Now Gmail doesn't, and so I got that backwards, because I said that using a remote SSL connection,
 you still had the benefit of that anonymity and you don't.
 So if you are using an email, a regular email client, Outlook, Eudora, whatever, and accessing
 Gmail and assuming that you are maintaining that IP level anonymity, that's not the case,
 in order to get that with Google Mail and it's the only one of those three that does,
 you need to access it through a web browser and do your work there.
 If you don't want the recipient to be able to easily see what IP address you were at when
 you sent the mail.
 So I wanted to correct that.
 It is counterintuitive because you'd think if you're not using a browser, why would it
 do that if you're using a standard pop client?
 Why would it embed the IP address?
 Well, actually the reason is it has to and the whole reason these IP addresses are embedded
 is that headers are appended as mail moves from one SMTP server to the next and you need
 to prevent routing loops or email forwarding loops.
 And when mail arrives at an SMTP server, it checks all of the received headers which are
 appended as the mail is moved from one server to the next to see if it has already received
 that mail.
 So it is necessary as a precaution for Gmail to do that so it makes sense.
 I just wanted to make sure that I corrected that because I wouldn't want people to think
 that they were more safe than they are.
 They're not as safe using Gmail through a remote client as they are from an anonymity
 standpoint of masking their actual connection IP when they use Gmail through the web browser.
 And you need to use HTTPS through the web browser and not just HTTP.
 Well, yeah, that won't affect your anonymity but of course you just assume to have a secure
 connection so nobody could be eavesdropping on you your connection to Gmail.
 So it doesn't embed the IP even if you're using the standard non-secure Gmail.
 Correct.
 Also, we talked several weeks ago about that new exploit and vulnerability which was being
 exploited in the windows XML core services.
 I did want to confirm to people that that was patched in Microsoft's second Tuesday of
 November patch cycle because we were telling people if they were at high risk of that kind
 of exploit, you might want to set that kill bit so people could go back now and remove
 it.
 On the other hand, invoking this particular Active X control through a web browser is
 a purely exploitive thing to do.
 It's not functionality that you could conceivably even need through your web browser.
 So you could probably just leave it there if you wanted to.
 It's timeless to leave the change.
 But what's interesting is there's a new exploit not in a Microsoft Active X control.
 This is a scary sort of thing to come in the future.
 Get this.
 The WinZip file view Active X control has a vulnerability and in the same way that this
 non-browser oriented XML core services Active X control which was exploited a few weeks
 ago and we talked about in the same way that it can be invoked through the browser so
 can WinZip's vulnerable file view Active X control.
 Don't you get a certificate though?
 Permissions request?
 Not that I've heard of.
 I think that was what was supposed to protect you against these Active X controls.
 If you go to a website with an embedded Active X control, it asks permission before running.
 But that's where it's providing you the control.
 The control is not coming from the website, it's coming from your system.
 Exactly.
 And that's a problem with widely deployed third-party software like WinZip.
 I mean, WinZip is very popular.
 I've got it on all my machines.
 And so here's WinZip bringing along an Active X control which has a vulnerability.
 So this is really sort of the next generation of problems we're going to be facing is once
 Microsoft gets themselves all battened down, unfortunately, the technology Microsoft has
 created is so powerful that now websites are able to reach through your browser into literally
 into the guts of Windows and invoke other components of Windows that were never intended
 to be used through the internet.
 Wow.
 Oh, so this file browser wasn't intended to be used that way.
 No.
 No, it's just a random Active X component that someone found a vulnerability in which you
 can ask Internet Explorer to invoke for you.
 Just launch that for me.
 Do we still have this bit that we can set to prevent that?
 Yes, there is a kill bit and in fact it's any version of WinZip 10.0 prior to build
 7245.
 It's important to note that they've already fixed this.
 So the best thing to do is just to update yourself, anyone using WinZip, update to
 the latest version of WinZip and build from 7245 or later and you'll be okay.
 Got it.
 Great.
 Okay.
 Now, another thing is that we were talking last week about 32 and 64 bit stuff and many
 people wrote to both you and me a lot email, holy cow.
 Yeah, well, I listened to Twit on Sunday Leo and so I heard you, you know, early in the
 show you talked about, oh, yeah, I'm going to have to talk about this and then you got
 around to it later on.
 What I wanted to make clear to people was that it's not just the Xeon, you know, the
 high end server level processors that have support for 64 bit technology.
 Pretty much as any modern processor now, right?
 Yes, for a number of years, many of the Pentium 4, the Celeron D, the Pentium D processors
 have included this technology.
 Intel calls it EM64T, which stands for extended memory 64 technology.
 And so basically it's, you know, it is full 64 bit technology running inside of the chip
 that can be turned on and in fact, you know, 64 bit window, 64 bit operating systems are
 now able to use that and of course Vista, the 64 bit version of Vista.
 If you happen to have one of these late model Pentium 4 Pentium D or Celeron D's and it's
 not all of them.
 It's only some of them.
 Also, the AMD chips, the Torian's many.
 Yes.
 You know, in fact, I have, I'm sitting right next to it an AMF DFX 64, which I knew was
 in a 64 bit chip.
 I don't know what I was just having a brain seizure.
 Well, I know I had this 64 bit chip for a year.
 Really the point though of compatibility is not so much the chip.
 I mean, yes, you have to have a 64 bit chip, but then everything else has to be compatible.
 It's not enough just to say, well, this is have a 64 bit chip.
 Well, you are actually, you also have to have a 64 bit aware BIOS.
 And so if you took an older BIOS and put a newer chip in it, that is you happen to have
 a chip with this EM64T technology.
 If the BIOS wasn't aware, then you still, you know, Vista would still not be able to
 work on that.
 So, you know, and exactly as you said, it's, I mean, the real, the real thing that's slowing
 down the adoption of this and the reason people aren't just turning on the 64 bit emulation
 instruction set within their, their chips is that there's a real dearth still of 64
 bit drivers or like, you know, all the hardware.
 It really is.
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 Well, thank you.
 I was, I was a fool.
 I was a fool.
 And I learned very quickly.
 Well, many times I was, I was first going to call this episode embracing Vista before
 I really took a look closer at kernel patch protection, but we also need to revisit, and
 this is still in the erratic category, the performance of windows Vista.
 Because you were saying you had terrible performance.
 Well, and I did have terrible performance on RC two, which was the, as I mentioned at
 the time, I wasn't sure if it was RC two, this or if it was the fact that I was using
 an MSDN download that was just loaded with the, with the debugging code.
 It turned.
 Okay.
 So I wanted to absolutely and officially correct the record, Vista flies on this machine.
 Okay.
 I mean, it is faster than XP it.
 Probably not faster than XP it is, it is bigger, but I mean, it is fast enough on that
 machine that I built that, that, that, you know, the Pentium four, three gig with the
 NVU display that the machine I described a couple of weeks ago, where I was just moaning
 and groaning and saying, well, who cares if it even works, it's so slow, you can't even
 use it.
 All of that was due to RC two and the fact that I was using the so-called checked build,
 a debugging build, I mean, it, it runs absolutely acceptably fast.
 I am, I'm completely pleased with it.
 I even installed it because I knew I was going to be, you know, correcting the, the, this
 presumption and, and this, this whole notion that it was so slow on this show, I installed
 it on my older HP compact TC 1100 tablet and it runs fine there.
 I don't get the fancy blurry interface, which, you know, the UI, which I really dislike anyway,
 but I mean, it, it runs at full speed and even they do a bunch of really cool things
 for tablet PCs, where like it gives you this little, little twinkily star cursor, since
 you really don't need a cursor because you're using a stylus on the tablet and when you touch
 it, a little ripple kind of comes out from the point, oh, I mean, it's just wonderful.
 So I'm, I know, I'm, I'm really happy with it from that standpoint.
 And as I, I really laid the groundwork, I'm very happy with the security related things
 Microsoft has done.
 So I, so I want to talk about that, but in my last little bit of a rat, we got a really
 neat piece of email that, that talked not only, it was from a security now listener that talked
 not only about spin right, but believe it or not, about a star.
 He said, I subscribed to security now podcast a while back and some of the information I've
 received as a result has been fantastic.
 Like many others, I purchased a copy of spin right as a way of saying, thank you for the
 real information you and Leo and part every week, shortly thereafter, I found myself in
 a situation where I had a dead system on my hands.
 He says, I popped in the spin right CD and 45 minutes later, the system was back to its
 old self.
 Yeah.
 So I immediately purchased an additional three licenses to bring my office up to site license
 status, which of course allows, you know, his whole office to use spin right whenever
 something like this happens.
 And he says, any product that can deliver that well is a must have resource in my opinion.
 Then as a next paragraph, he says, I'd also like to thank you for allowing a star row
 to sponsor your podcast.
 I have approximately 30 small satellite offices.
 Wow.
 That my wits end trying to gain control of inappropriate web surfing, as well as providing
 some form of firewall, IDS solution, you know, intrusion detection solution, I could manage
 from one location.
 After hearing their name over several episodes of security now, I contacted a star row and
 arranged for a demo box.
 Within a couple of weeks, I had all the evidence I needed to make a case for their product.
 Oh, good.
 We have 13 of the devices deployed already and will be rolling out an additional 18 over
 the next few weeks.
 Had I not heard their name on security now, they would likely have never come to my attention
 and we would have missed out on a great product.
 Thanks again for all the hard work.
 Two great products.
 I got to say.
 Isn't that great?
 More@spinwright.info, S-P-I-N-R-I-T-E.info.
 And of course, spin rights available through Steve's site, grc.com.
 It's a disc recovery and maintenance utility.
 I say, ah, it really is the disc recovery and maintenance utility and it's a must-have
 for anybody who wants to update their hard drive, keep an eye on it, maintain it or very
 often recover it when the worst happens.
 As long as we're imagining a star, let me do the a star row add and then we'll get into
 our Vista kernel patch protection and how hacked it is.
 Oh, you scare me when you say that.
 But we do want to thank a star row for supporting the show, the a star row security gateway is
 their product.
 If your smaller medium business network needs superior protection from spam, from viruses,
 from hackers, complete VPN capabilities, which is how I use it.
 That's fantastic.
 You got intrusion protection.
 You get content filtering as you heard and an industrial strike firewall all in a very
 easy to use high performance appliance.
 Contact a star row.
 That's A-S-T-A-R-O dot com or call 877 the number four A-S-T-A-R-O.
 To schedule a free trial of a star row security gateway appliance in your business.
 There is, by the way, and I really do want to emphasize this.
 I think I should put the link in the show notes because I think people have said it's
 kind of hard to find a free download for non-business users.
 So you could put it on your if you actually get a fresh meter source for it, I think it's
 on there too.
 If you could put it on your beat up PC and use that as a firewall and it does all the
 same thing.
 The subscription you even get the antivirus and the anti spam and all the other commercial
 features.
 So, and it's a very reasonable deal.
 I think the yearly price is very, very affordable.
 A-S-T-A-R-O dot com.
 We thank them for their support of the podcast.
 So now let's talk about the Vista kernel patch protection.
 This is the thing that's been controversial up to now.
 This isn't this the thing that Symantec and Adobe and others were complaining that they
 didn't have access to the kernel?
 Yeah, now I want to make sure people understand that I am pro Vista from a security standpoint.
 I mean, I'm worried about the fact that apparently they rewrote the network stack from scratch.
 We've talked about that in our episode called Vista's Virgin Stack because it's so easy
 to recreate errors which have been resolved years before and to reintroduce these old
 problems.
 And the thing that encourages me about Vista and we're going to be talking about it I'm
 sure, you know, off and on here now because, you know, it's important, is Microsoft has
 done a number of things which are policy-wise really pro security.
 You know, the best example of that that we've seen is when they finally turned on XP service
 back to firewall by default, the moment that happened the world changed because, you know,
 even though XP was out and XP had a firewall and there were even third party providers
 of firewalls, you still had all those worms and the way the worms worked was having access
 to open incoming ports.
 It's really becoming obvious that in the Windows world that the inexperienced novice users
 are the real threat if you're sophisticated, you know how to protect yourself.
 So having something beyond by default is so important because it's not the experts we
 worried about.
 Yes.
 And so for example, that's why I think it will clearly make a huge difference that Windows
 Defender is built into Vista that is that Windows will have a malware scanner built
 in.
 It'll update itself.
 It'll scan by itself.
 I mean, all that's turned on when anybody buys one of these new Vista machines in '07.
 So I mean, it's really a good thing.
 Now, what's always been the case, unfortunately, since the very first version of Windows is
 that Microsoft themselves used undocumented APIs that existed in their operating system
 that only they knew about, the developer community figured that out and started doing the same
 thing.
 And in the case of even later operating systems, you mean using Microsoft's undocumented
 APIs, not creating their own undocumented APIs?
 Yes, correct.
 Yeah.
 Thank you for the clarification.
 Yes.
 Using Microsoft's doing the same thing Microsoft was and using their undocumented APIs.
 Which Microsoft said, don't do.
 They said, don't do.
 We do.
 Those are what we do.
 Well, and they said, you know, we know what we're doing, so if we were to change the operating
 system so that those things went away, then we would know, so we would change what we
 were doing.
 Anyway, what has happened is there's been this over the years, a culture of the kernel
 has developed which shows the kernel no respect at all and what the kernel is, how important
 the kernel is.
 Well, I think we've really talked about that a lot and I want to, there's a lot of ground
 I want to cover here, so I don't want to diverge too much.
 The idea is to say it's the basic part of the operating system most importantly.
 Yeah.
 I mean, exactly.
 It is, you know, if you divide the operating system into the actual OS and then a lot of
 applications that come along with it, and then of course device drivers that are sort
 of become part of the OS, you know, you know, this is what you get from Microsoft before
 you start adding applications.
 The problem is, and it provides all the fundamental services that make the computer go.
 Well, the kernel has never gotten much respect because it hasn't protected itself from change.
 And even though Microsoft has said, do not change, do not hack the kernel semantic and
 McAfee and zone labs and Kerrio and literally everybody, you cannot build a personal firewall
 without breaking those rules because Microsoft until Vista has never given us the ability
 to hook into the operating system deeply to allow us to implement our own firewalls.
 So for example, the only way to do a personal firewall has been to break the rule, break
 the official rules and ignore Microsoft's admonishments about not hooking the kernel.
 Now, the problem is that it's not just good software that hooks the kernel, it's as we
 know, malware, you know, formerly known as root kits, the, the Sony, the famous now Sony
 DRM root kit disaster, where they were installing where Sony was installed, secretly installing
 a root kit, when someone just played their, the, the Sony published audio CD in order
 to enforce their, their DRM, that was doing the same thing.
 It was the modified kernel to do that.
 Yes, it was hiding itself by, by essentially hooking into the kernel and filtering that
 is, you know, like looking at every single action that the OS was doing, and, and for
 example, if you tried to do a directory listing, it would skip over it's the listing of itself.
 Well, the problem is, first of all, not only can this stuff be malicious, root kits use
 this technology to hide themselves, but if not properly implemented, it, they really
 can destabilize the operating system.
 You know, the classic case was, you know, the spyware that I first found, uh, the ad
 aware spyware, it, it was badly written and it hooked into Internet Explorer and it damaged
 Internet Explorer.
 That is Internet Explorer.
 It was so poorly written that it broke the OS, but because it was installed secretly,
 no one knew what had happened to their computer.
 It just, you know, Windows sort of started having a hard time.
 And so I never expected that when I produced opt out, my little free program to remove
 it, that we'd be getting mail back saying, well, you just fixed my computer.
 It's like, what?
 That's not what it was supposed to do.
 But it turned out that by removing this spyware, which was, was secretly damaging their computer,
 their computer got better.
 So, so what Microsoft has done with this, with the 64 bit version of Vista, as we talked
 about before, is they've implemented something that they call their kernel patch protection,
 which has the nickname of patch guard.
 Now they, they would desperately love to give this technology to the 32 bit platform.
 That is to the Windows, you know, XP and Vista that, that runs on 32 bit hardware, but they
 can't, because exactly as I was saying, there is, there is such pervasive use of this rule
 breaking kernel modifying behavior that it would just, I mean, it would just scrap, I
 mean, even, even, you know, not even device drivers from semantic and McAfee, but random
 printer drivers.
 I mean, obscure things you would never think would have any reason to modify the kernel
 turn out to have, just because the kernel has had no respect at all, they've, they've,
 they just go in and make little changes here and there.
 And you know, mostly this stuff works, but it turns out it is implicated in destabilizing
 Windows.
 Well, you could see what a mess this would make.
 Well, it, and, and I mean, it's, it's phenomenal actually that it has worked as well as it has,
 you know, people want their machines to work and you put something in and it breaks it,
 you take it out and it fixes it.
 So I was like, okay, well, I'm not putting that in again.
 Yeah.
 So what Microsoft has decided to do is they have said enough is enough.
 We are with our 64 bit version since that requires brand new kernel mode drivers, device
 drivers and code anyway.
 We are going to add, we're going to proactively enforce the, our statement that no one can
 modify the kernel.
 We're going to do it.
 That's the difference.
 Yes.
 We are going to proactively enforce it.
 The, the, now here's the problem with doing that.
 And that, and this bears on a lot of the things we've talked about before.
 The kernel itself is trying to protect itself.
 That is it's running at the same level of protection, the same, the same protection domain
 as the code, which it's trying to protect against.
 This is fundamentally impossible to do.
 Oh no.
 You can't.
 Yes.
 That sounds bad.
 I don't know what that means, but it sounds bad.
 A perfect example is, you know, like SSL, the secure sockets layer, it's a public spec.
 Everybody can know exactly how it works.
 And knowing how it works doesn't allow an attacker to circumvent it.
 Okay.
 Knowing how patch guard works, that is the, the, the Vista kernel patch protection, knowing
 how it works allows it to be circumvented.
 So, and again, Microsoft knows this, and so they've gone to extremes, to obfuscate and
 to misdirect.
 They've got deliberately misnamed labels that are labeled something innocuous looking.
 They've got routines that do, that say they do one thing and actually do another.
 They, they, they create, they have a pseudo random number generator that they initialize
 from something called the RDTSC, the read time stamp counter.
 That's a very high resolution timer.
 Basically it counts every single clock cycle, the processor had.
 So it creates a nice source of randomness.
 They use that to randomly scramble the patch guard data structures so that they can't easily
 be found in memory.
 But all of this exists in memory and there are already white papers on the net with sample
 code, which circumvents patch guard.
 I mean, this is what they call security through obscurity and well, it is, it is exactly security
 through obscurity.
 And when you're a prime target, like windows, you can't expect that to hold very long.
 Well, so, so here's what this means.
 And I want to, again, this is, this is a, a tricky conceptual issue that I want to make
 sure I get really clear.
 The fact that it can be circumvented means a few things, but the fact that it's there
 at all means something else.
 Okay.
 So first of all, Microsoft is proactively enforcing onto publishers of commercial software like
 Symantec, like McAfee, like zone labs, like, I mean, anybody who in the past has been a
 deliberate kernel modifier, Microsoft is saying, no, no more.
 It stops here at the 64 bit kernel as we, as we, you know, we wish we had done this when
 we went from 16 bits to 32 bits.
 We didn't.
 Well, we're doing it now.
 And so it's just like, no more, we are going to proactively prevent this.
 Essentially, what this means is anybody who does deliberately circumvent the patch guard
 does so truly at their own peril.
 And you can presume that Symantec's not going to do this, McAfee's not going to do this
 zone.
 Exactly.
 I mean, what I always going to do it, yes, what, what I like about this is that it raises
 the bar to a point where the good guys really won't do this.
 The reason this is important is that this is not the end of kernel protection.
 What Microsoft will next do and they, and this is just sort of a stepping stone is they will
 implement their own blue pill.
 We've talked about the blue pill before how, how it essentially slips in a hypervisor that
 runs underneath the kernel in order to be, you know, like be a super root kit.
 The next thing Microsoft will do is they will add hypervisor technology into some future
 version of Vista, which will finally then make this, this, this clue, which is patch guard
 unnecessary.
 The reason patch guard is a clue is it isn't actually kernel patch prevention.
 It's kernel, it's, it's kernel modification detection.
 What it does is it runs every five to ten minutes, randomly timed off of a timer in
 the kernel.
 One of the attacks of that is just to turn off the timer and it turns out you can.
 You can find the timer and you once and split the whole thing Steve and you can just turn
 it off and they're synthetic.
 Your sample code on the net for doing that and that works.
 It works.
 It's been proven.
 It's been tested.
 It just turns off patch guard.
 Thank you very much.
 But one of the other things that happens is very clear.
 Microsoft must have known that this is not any way secure.
 This is just a way of saying to the good guys, you can't do this anymore.
 It's a way of saying to the bad guy to do it.
 Yes, it's a way of saying to the good guys, we are really, really, really, really, really
 serious about thou shalt not touch the kernel.
 And so from this position, Microsoft is now free to make kernel changes.
 See, they've been locked up in the past because everybody, because everybody was going digging
 into the kernel, doing their own thing down there, Microsoft, in the name of compatibility,
 could never make any changes.
 Even though they said, please don't mess with the kernel, we want to be able to make
 changes.
 Microsoft couldn't because nothing is more important to Microsoft, bless their hearts,
 than keeping compatibility as they move forward.
 So now by doing this, by being proactive this way, they're able to say, you know, if you
 do anything like this, don't come crying to us because we guarantee you, we will break
 things in the future.
 So what they've done is they've really created a boundary and they've enforced it in a way
 that yes, it can be defeated.
 It has been defeated.
 Now the other problem is that we really can't look at this today as really strong malware
 prevention.
 We can look at it as really strong, good guy prevention, that is it's going to prevent
 the commercial guys from making changes.
 It's like putting a fence around a new lawn saying, keep off the grass.
 Yes.
 And if you get on the grass, you're breaking that law, you can do it, but that makes you
 a bad guy.
 And ultimately Microsoft will be able to leverage the hardware.
 See again, we've got, we've got, we've talked about like ring zero and ring three, ring zero
 being very privileged ring three being where the user mode code runs code in a different
 privilege ring can be controlled.
 But we're talking about code, you know, device drivers modifying the kernel with the device
 driver is in the kernel.
 So by using in the future, by using hypervisor technology, you know, virtual machine technology
 to to supervise the kernel, it will be possible to lock down the kernel.
 But you could only do that if you knew the kernel could have never before been modified
 because locking it down, if somebody were depending upon it being modified, that would
 render their software useless.
 So maybe we're doing baby steps, we're going to make it really, really, really hard to
 modify the kernel so that if you do, you know, you're at your, you're at your own peril.
 And then in the future, we're going to really lock it down using hardware technology.
 We have not yet deployed, which will not allow it to be modified.
 And that's where we'll get real malware prevention.
 We don't quite have it yet.
 But we're on their way.
 This is like an incremental step towards that.
 And again, I salute Microsoft.
 This is a really good thing they have done.
 Colonel patch guard is not in 32 bit though.
 It's only in 64 bit or is it it's even been in you're correct.
 It's even been in the 64 bit version of XP.
 And so it's been running there.
 And in fact, that's why we know how it works.
 That's why it's been exactly so carefully carefully looked at.
 And I'm sure, I mean, this is literally it's cat and mouse.
 I'm sure when these papers came out, Microsoft said, oh, let's work around those workarounds.
 And then, you know, these guys just re reverse engineer it and work around the work around
 workarounds.
 But let's not get around to that because this is only an hour long podcast.
 It doesn't matter.
 And our hours up, Lee, hey, well, that's a really great explanation.
 It does give me hope that not only is Microsoft, you know, understand the problem, but there's,
 you know, it doesn't happen overnight, but they're making progress.
 Yeah, I thought it was important not to oversell what patch guard does because I felt like
 I did that a couple of weeks ago.
 I told people, oh, this prevents the criminal from being modified.
 I did a lot more research and it's like, well, okay, no, they're good guys.
 That's exactly.
 I mean, it really raises the bar and it does allow Microsoft to alter the kernel as they
 really need and ought to have the right to do for our own sake in the future.
 Well, I know that I am actually now looking at Vista capable hardware because it's really
 time and that's why I'm going to Dell.
 And I encourage you to do the same.
 I've got my XPS 700.
 We got that for call for help and now I'm looking for laptops.
 Almost all the Dell stuff now has that Vista capable and Vista premium ready sticker so
 you know what you're getting.
 And the Vista Express upgrade means you can upgrade to Vista.
 The minute it's available January 30th, we encourage you if you're looking for a Windows
 machine to go to twitch.tv/dell the Leo's picks page, click the links there, whatever
 you buy.
 Once you go through that page, we get credit for and we do appreciate that.
 We also appreciate the support of Dell for this program.
 That's twitch.tv/dell.
 Steve Gibson's website is grc.com.
 That's where you of course you'll find spin right as we mentioned, but not just spin right.
 Also the show notes, the 16 kilobit versions of each episode for the bandwidth impaired
 transcripts.
 Thanks to Elaine.
 A lot of useful information and of course Steve's wide ranging list of free programs
 for your security.
 It's grc.com.
 Steve, have a great turkey day.
 Yes, Lee.
 I may have a surprise for people next week.
 Speaking of my list of free programs, I've been working really bad about pre-announcing
 things so I'm not going to say anything.
 We'll see what happens next week.
 Steve's been in the lab.
 We'll find out what he's got next week.
 We'll see you next Thursday on Security Now.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
