 This is security now, episode 6 for September 22nd, 2005.
 Steve Gibson is with us, our security wizard from grc.com, author of "Spinrite and Shields Up"
 and the kombabule door and leak tests and all those great security programs as well as course.
 As I mentioned, "Spinrite" which is a fabulous disc recovery program.
 Steve's back in Irvine, I'm back in Petaluma.
 So we're home safe and sound and we're going to talk today about electronic eavesdropping
 and how people can spy on you.
 Well, there's been a lot of dialogue in the last week because three researchers at Berkeley
 wrote some software which after just recording the sound of someone typing,
 not a prepared text, just random English language.
 They need to assume that it's English because they use English dictionaries
 and something called Markov modeling which allows you to determine the probability of one letter following another
 which is language based, but not requiring that their system be trained with a previously prepared text.
 Just recording the sound of someone typing, they record 10 minutes of the sound of someone typing,
 then their machine, which is running a 3 gig Pentium 4,
 takes 30 minutes to process that sound and they are able to with 96% accuracy determine
 what was being typed just from the sound of someone typing.
 How have they done that?
 Have they mapped, does each key sound different?
 Well, it turns out, yes, that there are enough, they use the energy content of the keystrokes
 as opposed to the frequency domain content.
 Some of this has been done before using fast foyer transforms which determine essentially the spectrum.
 These guys use the energy content that is represented by the sound
 and there's enough variation in keys that they're able to record that.
 Then through processing this, they group the keys that they're unable to differentiate into similar groups,
 but then by presuming that English is what's being typed, that is words that they have in a dictionary,
 they're able to process that information and disambiguate the keys which sound indistinguishably different
 and figure out what they are, basically sort of running a speller and a grammar check on this.
 They're able to break it apart and figure out what was done.
 The chilling thing is that once they've done that, they can, for example, they're able to determine passwords
 which are not in the dictionary, that is, random characters that are being entered with a 90% probability.
 They end up with a list of possible passwords that were typed and with very good probability,
 the correct password is in this list of like 100 passwords that it could be based on what they heard being typed.
 So somebody could put a recorder in your cubicle at work and basically see everything you're typing.
 You don't need a keystroke logger in other words.
 Well, exactly. Now, if you had that kind of physical access to someone's cubicle,
 what you'd really do is you'd stick one of those little inline keystroke loggers into their keyboard connection.
 That's a real risk from that kind of physical proximity.
 But I think the real danger here is, for example, if you had a parabolic microphone
 that was aimed at someone's keyboard from across a hall or some distance away,
 where for whatever reason you didn't have direct access, or maybe, for example, you could bounce a laser off of their window
 in order to pick up the sound of them typing in their office.
 The window makes kind of an audio transducer so you could actually see the vibration of the window, is that?
 Exactly. And that technology exists pretty well.
 Now, what's interesting is this is another in a long series of security and information leakage,
 which is a function of electrical or a mechanical or electromagnetic leakage from a computer.
 You know, we've all heard, you know, years ago, there was this technology called Tempest,
 which was it attempted to, and apparently successfully,
 determine what image you had on your screen based on the electromagnetic leakage from a CRT.
 Van Eck freaking, they call that. Yeah.
 Exactly. So, now, when Tempest was to attempt, that was the military spec to avoid it by shielding.
 And I remember I had, PGP used to have a Tempest mode where instead of displaying the characters
 in crisp black and white on your screen, it would do was a very light blue that apparently was
 supposedly more difficult to freak. And so, so the point would be that exactly the scanning beam
 in displaying that light blue, it was enough low contrast and there wasn't enough difference
 that it didn't put out a signal that was able to be picked up.
 I noticed they've, as far as I know, they've taken that out of recent versions of PGP,
 maybe not something in great demand. How serious is this stuff?
 There's also been some other research recently that is able to do this using the light,
 the ambient light generated from the CRT and also even from an LCD, apparently.
 Yeah, Bunny Huang, who was the guy who cracked the Xbox, I remember told us that he could,
 for the screen savers, build us as such a device, that would, you could see around corners in effect,
 because if you could see the flicker, the strobe coming off a CRT, you could reconstruct it
 into this visual on the screen. That's all it took.
 It's not easy to do. I, you know, I, the work I did years ago was to create a high resolution
 light pen for the Apple II computer.
 Oh, I remember that.
 Yeah. That used a photo diode. You need an extremely fast response photo detector in
 order to pick up the scanning beam on a CRT. But it's certainly possible to do. I mean,
 that technology exists now and it's been refined a lot because, of course,
 that's how we move information through fiber optics is by having very, very high performance
 photo reception at the receiving end of a fiber optic, which brings to mind another
 issue. And that was about a year ago, people suddenly got concerned that the LEDs,
 which were showing the activity of their routers, was a similar sort of electromagnetic, in this
 case, optical leakage of what was going on in their networks.
 You know, it was strobing fast enough that you could see data?
 Well, I mean, that's the thing. So is that is that it was one of these sort of these urban
 legends that made the rounds through the internet community about a year, maybe a year and a half
 ago to the point that ISPs started putting black electrical. Oh, I'm not kidding you.
 Oh, over the the lights on the front of their networking equipment, because you were afraid
 that people were going to suck the information out. I don't think you have the resolution,
 maybe for 300 baud, but not for 10 megabits.
 Well, I was immediately skeptical because all of the LEDs that I switched fast enough.
 Well, they're showing you packets, not bits. And so they're only meant to be information
 illumination and not actual data being moved.
 If they were showing you bits, they'd be on constantly because the bit rate is so fast.
 Right. So what's interesting about all of these is that, I mean, based on all the email
 that we've received, people being concerned now about people listening to them typing on the
 keyboard, it seems to me that it's an interesting issue for security. And that is that it's important
 to recognize that not just the traditional means of information and leakage, but even
 these non-traditional approaches, optical leakage and now acoustic, are things that at the far
 end of the spectrum, it is a way for information to get out of your computer, something that
 people need to be concerned about. Well, or at least NSA sorts of people.
 Yeah, where the Berkeley researchers come up with any recommendations.
 Well, this is a preprint from their paper that they'll be publishing in the November issue
 of the communications of the ACM for computers, communications and security.
 So they did experiment with like softer, quieter keyboards. They actually used a couple Dell
 specifically like low noise keyboards for these experiments and those keyboard generated enough
 noise that they were able to perform with 96% recognition of what was being typed.
 I suppose if you had one of those white noise generators in the background or something like that,
 you might be able to mask it. Well, and certainly if you were doing anything yourself to deliberately
 obfuscate this kind of a problem like deliberately hitting every other key harder,
 clearing your voice while you're typing your password.
 They did talk about the notion of two-factor security. That is, for example, using some other
 technology than just a password, which would not be typed at the keyboard.
 And in fact, some of the people that responded to our second
 podcast, number five about passwords, also talked about the idea of on-screen keyboards,
 where you would use your mouse and click the password on the screen in order to completely
 avoid the keyboard and the problem with keystroke loggers and so forth.
 And of course, biometrics, some print recognition and the like would have the same benefit.
 Yeah, it's interesting that they had to take these keystrokes, the sound of these keystrokes
 in context. That is, you know, you need to use English and they largely improve the accuracy
 by figuring out what, you know, based on the sounds, there were many possible combinations
 because acoustics wasn't perfect, not every key sounded unique. So they ended up with groups
 of keys that they were able then to say, okay, here's all the words in the dictionary that are
 possible versus based on what we've seen, here's the groupings of keys that could be pulled out.
 Now, you know, what are these groupings mapping of the words? They did that, then they figured out,
 okay, which words make sense from a grammar context based on the assumption that English
 is being typed. Don't you think, Steve, though, that worrying about these kinds of things is kind
 of ignoring the larger danger of the fact that your stuff is being sent over the internet and,
 you know, that, I mean, frankly, the password, the weakest point is the storage on the other end.
 I remember IBM did a study a few years ago where they discovered that something like 8 out of 10
 of the big e-commerce sites had poor password security on their end.
 Well, or poor storage of the data, for example, unencrypted databases at the other end.
 Right. So that's really the greater risk.
 Yes, I completely agree that this is sort of, you know, in a far out end of what any real normal
 user needs to be concerned about. But again, you know, the people that listen to this podcast,
 who are surprisingly security concerned, were, you know, sending me links to this story that I had
 now seen a hundred times by the end of the week. And I was thinking, okay, well, let's just talk
 about this and put it into context, which is something I'm glad you're doing, because it is clear
 that, you know, this is a, again, it's a sort of thing where if you were going to, in order to
 record the data and the sound of someone's keyboard, you would have to, you'd have to have, you know,
 either a parabolic mic, which is somehow aimed at their keyboard, or plant a microphone or a recorder
 of some sort near them. Well, if you're going to have that kind of physical access, there's way
 easier ways to get the information far more reliable ways to get it.
 Yeah, and Van Eck freaking wall. I mean, I've seen demonstrations that kind of work. I don't know
 if anybody's really demonstrated that you could, you know, through a hotel room wall, for instance,
 see what the other guy is doing on his screen. Well, what is a little annoying is that the,
 based on the paper, which I've, which I've read and studied carefully, this was really
 some serious number crunching and a lot of work, but they're going to post the source code for this
 on their site, keyboard-eminations.org will be the name of the site. And on our security now page,
 I've got a link to a page of links of various information. Now, one other aspect of this,
 which is sort of interesting, is that from a legal standpoint, this is not illegal.
 Really? It's not used dropping. It's not. Well, it's not eavesdropping because it's not covered
 by the law because this is not considered deliberate communication. So even though the law has been
 amended so that even if you don't have an expectation of privacy, there is sort of a presumed privacy
 in the law, this is not considered communication. So the sound of your keyboard being typed is not
 protected under the law because there's no expectation that this is communication.
 It's just into the science. Whereas, of course, you know, internet communication or telephone
 communication and so forth, there you're protected, but but not any kind of, you know, optical,
 electromagnetic or acoustic emanations from your system. So, you know, these guys are going to
 post the source code for this. Who knows what kind of tools the open source community will
 generate from that? And it may be at some point that in the same way that we have now cracking
 tools that allow wireless communications to be cracked far more easily just by downloading them
 and running them, at some point you can foresee in the future that there will be freely downloadable
 software that will process the sound of keyboards being typed and figure out what people are typing.
 Well, I only have one thing to say to that. And there, you detect that.
 All right, Steve gives an fascinating conversation and I'm sure people will have more to say about
 it and we encourage their feedback. How do you like people to get ahold of you?
 We've got a response form down at the bottom of the security now page on GRC.com and that's how
 lots of people are sending their comments and thoughts and questions. Great. So, that's at
 GRC.com/securitynow.htm. And of course, we thank AOL podcasting at AOLMusic.com for providing
 the bandwidth for security now. We couldn't do it without them, but their contribution makes it
 possible for us to do this for free. And Steve also puts transcripts of each security now up
 on his website. Steve, how long does it take to get a transcript out about a week later?
 No. I've got this great gal who's into computers and knows the moment these things go up, it normally
 takes only a few hours. Wow. Again, that's at GRC.com/securitynow.htm. Can you come up with a little
 redirect for that that just makes it so much easier for me to say? We always have a link at the top
 of our home page right at that page. So just GRC.com and I'll get them to it. That's easy enough to
 remember. And this time, I didn't put up the show notes last week, so I will put dual show
 notes up this week. For those of you who use RSS readers or professional style podcast clients
 to get this, you'll see the show notes have links in it and there's more information. But
 for those of you using iTunes or less capable podcatchers, the webpage will have that information.
 Again, GRC.com/securitynow.html and be careful what you type. I'm more concerned really about the
 NSA with spy satellites looking in at my windows and watching the strobe from my monitors
 and reconstructing what I'm looking at. You know what they'd see right now? A picture of you.
 That's great. Steve gives and thanks a lot. Thank you, Leo.
