 Happy holidays everybody, Steve and I are taking the week off, but we have a very special
 encore presentation of Bitcoin, the history, the story, how it all worked.
 This is back long, long ago, in 2011, when Bitcoin was worth about $1 each, Steve explained
 it all.
 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by cashfly at CACHEFLY.com.
 This is Security Now is Steve Gibson, Episode 643, recorded December 5, 2017 for air on
 December 26, 2017.
 The story of Bitcoin.
 Security Now is brought to you by GoToWebinar, a trusted webinar platform with over 55,000
 customers, who have hosted over 2.7 million interactive web events to connect with their
 audiences.
 For more, visit GoToWebinar.com/podcast.
 It's Security Now, time, happy holidays everybody, Steve Gibson.
 You're looking fine in your Santa hat, I'm your little helper, Elf, with the jingle bells
 on.
 We're not here right now because Steve's getting his teeth cleaned and I'm on a catamaran
 somewhere in the British Virgin Islands.
 Yeah, Henry and I are going on a little sailing adventure, but as always, we like to bring
 you a holiday episode and this is a very timely one, actually, it's timely for Henry because
 yesterday, he's noted as many have the rise in price in Bitcoin and he's got two burning
 questions for me.
 One, he wants to invest in Bitcoin.
 He says, "Oh God, I said please don't."
 He says, "I know, you can help him with this."
 He says, "I got a guy who go to school with a Colorado who's made $600,000 on Bitcoin,
 and so he's going to help me dabble."
 Oh dear.
 And then he also knows that I like you have a Bitcoin wallet somewhere.
 You've got a little more than I do in there, 50 Bitcoins worth hundreds of thousands of
 dollars.
 Mine, mere tens of thousands of dollars, seven Bitcoins.
 So he keeps saying, "Where's your wallet?
 Where's your wallet?"
 Oh, break into it.
 Give me 10%.
 Ha, ha, ha.
 So I think Henry needs to understand a little bit more about how Bitcoin works.
 Well, yes.
 And if we have listeners who've been listening from day one, they will recall, may recall,
 that in 2011, I think it was February 8th or something, it was episode number 238, was
 on Bitcoin cryptocurrency.
 And no one really knew what it was.
 It was kind of like, "What?
 Cryptocurrency?"
 Of course, here we are now nearly eight years later, nearly seven years later, and it's
 a thing.
 I mean, there's nobody who doesn't know what it is.
 My mom asked me a few months ago, she said, "Honey, do you know about Bitcoin?
 I thought, 'What?'
 Mom."
 And because someone that she knew wanted to invest in Bitcoin and wanted to know what
 she thought.
 And it's like, "Okay, well, if my mother is asking me about Bitcoin, then it's arrived."
 Yeah.
 It's kind of like me and Henry, actually.
 Yeah, exactly.
 So back then, I brought myself up to speed on what cryptocurrency was, and specifically
 the first cryptocurrency, the Bitcoin, and the whole Satashi...
 Satoshi Nakamoto?
 Satoshi Nakamoto.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Who was apparently, we believed, we didn't know really where he was or who he was, but
 his name was on the white paper explaining about the notion of this.
 So I learned about it, and on that podcast, number 238, which was titled Bitcoin cryptocurrency
 laid it all out, explained what it was, how it worked, and I was jazzed about it.
 I was very excited because in my analysis of it, I was in awe of the foresight that this
 inventor apparently had, the idea that the future trajectory of the rate of Bitcoin production,
 it mining, as it's called, was already foreset, that is, we knew exactly how difficult it was
 going to be, and the algorithm of mining adjusted itself dynamically in the presence of anticipated
 growing compute power so that the number of Bitcoins produced was on an already following
 a foreordained trajectory, and there would never be more than a certain number, and they
 would become increasingly difficult to produce with time, creating built-in algorithmic
 rarity, and that all of this was created, it was enabled by software, by these algorithms,
 which had been designed.
 So in the podcast, I laid it out, and since then, because it's now been what, six or seven
 years, I keep seeing people referring, like in Twitter feed, referring others back to
 that podcast.
 It's like, if you want to understand Bitcoin, go listen to this.
 And so I thought, okay, here we are today, it's a thing, and Bitcoin at the time, I don't
 remember, it's like maybe worth 50 bucks for a Bitcoin or something, I mean, I started
 a computer running with a Bitcoin miner, it was just an i7 machine, not a super powerful
 thing, it was an old cute little machine, no GPU, just a standard Intel processor, back
 then, Bitcoins were easy to mine, it wasn't not a hard problem to solve, so it happened
 very quickly, in fact, I woke up the next morning, and my little miner that had been
 running while I was sleeping made 50 Bitcoins, and I remembered coming back on episode 239
 with you saying, hey, I got $25.
 Exactly, that was just it, it was just like, okay, you know, and the problem is, I don't
 know really where they are now, I mean, I'm horrified to think that I may have formatted
 that drive, I don't know, I kind of think I moved them to a different machine, because
 there's a wallet, right, and it's in the wallet, the wallet is an encrypted database that actually
 doesn't just have your information, it has the entire blockchain in it.
 So the first thing, if you found it, you would have to do is run the Bitcoin software and
 download like 50 gigabytes of blockchain, it's kind of gotten out of control, yes, which
 is kind of one of the problems, but what was then worth a few dollars, and this is the
 other, I mean, this is really the reason I wanted to revisit what is Bitcoin and cryptocurrency
 and the blockchain and the mining algorithm and all that, is now a Bitcoin, it's dancing
 around just shy of $12,000 for one, it's like at 11,700 something as we're recording this,
 and it did cross the 12,000 point, but then dropped down a little bit, but it's just gone
 well, exponential, so I thought it would be really fun for those who are trying to cash
 out, I might add, although I've said that all along, and who knows really, right?
 Is it a bubble, is it a rarity, I just like, you know, well, you know, I am wondering
 kind of where they are, but so anyway, for the holidays, for our special episode, I thought
 let's, especially for all of our listeners who joined us after the early February of 2011,
 you've never heard this unless you went back and deliberately listened to it, so we're
 now presenting you with the episode from early February 2011, Bitcoin cryptocurrency for
 your holiday listening.
 And just a program note, we are going to take the obviously, the news part of it out, and
 you might note a different voice, Tom Merritt was hosting, because I was on vacation.
 So it's also a little hello to Tom Merritt, a host of the Daily Tech News show, and he
 and Steve, in fact, I came back and mystified about Bitcoin, and I still don't know anything,
 so I'm going to listen with you.
 Perfect.
 On your catamaran, you can be, well, and actually, I guess Henry wants to know, so you can play
 the podcast for him, and then you'll both know.
 So our big topic today is Bitcoin, call this a cryptocurrency.
 Well, it's really, really clever, you know, the reason that I just, I sort of fell in
 love with this for the moment is as I plowed in, I just got a big kick out of the way that
 the many problems associated with a, with a sort of a floating currency, meaning a currency
 that doesn't, it isn't anchored by any central bank.
 There's no state sponsorship for it, it's, it's, I mean, it's a, it's a real thing.
 Anyone who's interested, and I would encourage our listeners, if, if this podcast and what
 they hear about it, make some curious, go check it out.
 You just put Bitcoin into Google, and you'll start seeing pages of stuff.
 And about two years ago, the project was registered a little over two years ago by a Japanese
 cryptographer Satoshi Nakamoto, and it's, it's an open source project on source forge.
 So none of this is, you know, black art stuff.
 The goal is to really solve, I mean, to offer it an honest to God, you know, non hobby level,
 but, but industrial strength, internet based, peer to peer currency, where real value can
 be exchanged between two parties without any intermediary being involved.
 And that's one of the trickiest things because you've got all kinds of problems.
 First of all, where does the currency come from?
 You know, what creates the currency?
 How much currency is flowing through the system?
 How do you monitor that and regulate it?
 How do you prevent it from being inflated?
 How do you peep, how do you keep people from fraudulently creating currency?
 How do you keep someone from, if they have some, from reusing the same currency?
 All of that has been solved with this system in, in some very clever and very new ways,
 which is what, which is really what captivated my attention on this.
 So there was, wait a minute.
 So we have currencies, we have euros and yens and dollars.
 How can you invent a currency?
 What makes that work?
 Well, okay.
 So think about it, a currency is, is nothing really but an agreement among the parties
 that this synthetic thing has value.
 You know, once upon a time, you know, when we, when the dollar, when the dollar was anchored
 to a gold standard, the idea was that there was gold backing up dollars and, and, and
 and so when you had a so-called promissory note, it was a, you know, it was equivalent
 to X amount of gold.
 And we were, of course, famously taken off of the gold standard.
 The problem was we needed more money than we had gold.
 So we had to disconnect in the, in the case of US dollars, we had to disconnect US dollars
 from gold because we needed to, we literally needed to create more money than, than we
 had gold to back it up.
 It's, it's kind of an incredible innovation in human society when you think about it,
 that this works at all because, you know, because it started out, you were carrying
 around your chickens because you just wanted to trade what you had a value for, you know,
 what the blacksmith had.
 That got it convenient, so gold became a good standard because everybody valued gold and
 everybody had kind of had the same value of gold, but we've gone from that to this sort
 of agreement that, well, I'm going to, I'm going to agree that a dollar's worth of work
 is worth a dollar's worth of merchandise.
 And, and it doesn't have to be backed by anything.
 We'll just, we'll all agree that that's the way to pay stuff.
 So I guess that's what all they have to do is get enough people to agree that this currency
 is valuable.
 Correct.
 Well, and notice also that we chose gold because it was scarce.
 We didn't use water, for example, you know, because you just go over to a stream and dip
 your bucket in and now, and the problem is, of course, anybody could go do that.
 So, so water.
 There's a famous scene in one of the Douglas Adams novels where they decide leaves will
 be their currency and it has the same problem.
 Well, of course, money grows on trees, right?
 Right.
 And so, so we chose gold because it was scarce.
 And, you know, famously in the, in, in, in the days of, you know, individual gold miners,
 they'd go out and try to find it because they would, basically they were creating more currency
 to put into the system at a, at a controlled rate.
 And initially, when there was lots of gold around, we were digging it up and, and, and
 turning it into bars and coins and so forth.
 And over time, it became increasingly difficult for us to, to find more gold.
 So it became increasingly scarce and its value has increased.
 So, in some ways a, a virtual, we have a virtual currency with the dollar and the Euro and
 all of these.
 In some ways that that is a little more fair because someone can't just go out and find
 a bunch of money, unless they're robbing a bank, I guess, but, you know, you can't just
 go digging in the hills and luck into a bunch of money.
 It has to be earned in some manner.
 Right.
 So what we, what has been created with Bitcoin has all of these attributes there.
 There is this concept of a, of Bitcoins, the currency in, in, in, in the same way that the
 abbreviation for US dollars is, is USD and euros is EUR.
 Bitcoin's abbreviation is, is, uh, BTC Bitcoin BTC.
 And this, so this network of computers exists now on the internet peer to peer.
 You can go to Bitcoin.org and download a program for Windows, Mac and Linux, which is open source
 and install it on your computer and tell it to start generating Bitcoins.
 It is literally start making money.
 So you are making money out of nothing.
 Well, just by being a member, I mean, how, how does this, this is sounds like some sort
 of, uh, bit torrent situation where you, it sounds wacky, but yeah.
 So, so you are making money.
 The way you make money is by, is by processing transactions within the Bitcoin system.
 So, and this is, this is complicated, but unfortunately it needs to be complicated in
 order to be robustly secure, which it really is.
 There is a, in the FAQ at Bitcoin.org, or org in the FAQ, there's a link to the original
 PDF that, uh, that Satoshi wrote that describes in greater detail how this works.
 But the idea is that you want a, you want a transaction trail of every single transaction
 between two parties that has ever occurred and they're occurring all the time.
 Now this is not just, this currency is virtual, but it has been anchored now to real currencies.
 There are, there are websites that, that will trade real currencies for Bitcoins.
 Um, they, they, at this point in time, about two years after it was, it was launched, um,
 the current, the, the, the current, um, uh, currency trade of US dollars for Bitcoins is
 about one to one.
 I think it's like 93 cents for a Bitcoin and there are organizations which accept Bitcoin
 payments.
 Uh, the EFF, the Electronic Frontier Foundation, um, uh, accepts donations in Bitcoin currency.
 There are, there are programmers who will work and, and accept payment in Bitcoins.
 There's a, there's a, I think it's called trade, a trade link at Bitcoin.org that is
 shows a page of lists of, of all the, of the currency exchanges that exist now.
 And then a growing number of organizations and, and companies that will, that will accept
 Bitcoin currency as real, our specialist, I hope you're enjoying this special edition
 of a security.
 Now I know I am.
 I wasn't here for that original show.
 So it's fun for me to, uh, learn, listen and learn and we all have a little bit of Bitcoin,
 don't we just lying around?
 It's fun to know how it works, but first, before we go on a word from our sponsor, go
 to webinar.
 I've done go to webinars and really had a lot of fun.
 It's a great way to present, whether it's for training, sales presentations, um, you
 know, uh, I mean, I, well, anytime you would teaching, you'd need one to many online.
 Go to webinar allows up to one to six presenters with their video and the, or their screens
 or their apps, talk to pretty much an infinite and unlimited number of people, uh, both live
 and on demand and that's part of the fun of the webinar, go to webinar platform is when
 you do a go to webinar, they were, it's recorded automatically.
 You can make it available for viewing anytime and it can be just as interactive as when you
 were doing it live.
 For instance, they have, uh, great polls for audience interaction up to 20 per webinar,
 up to 20 questions each.
 You'll probably want to prepare one or two for your webinar ahead of time, maybe to generate
 sales leads or just to, you know, kind of get whether people understand your stuff,
 but you can even do them on the fly.
 So as you're going along, if you think, gosh, this is like, with Bitcoin, it's complicated.
 Are they understanding or maybe better understanding your audience as they attend and those polls
 not only appear in the live webinar, but they also appear in the on demand webinar.
 So your audience continues to be engaged and interact with you.
 Even if you're not really there, go to webinar has great reporting and analytics.
 People appreciate that, a great way to get qualified sales lead and metrics and maybe
 most importantly data so that you can make your next webinar better.
 Easy to start.
 Custom email invitations, confirmations and reminders, automated email templates.
 You could do it all from your iOS or Android device.
 You can even edit sessions and track performance on your iOS or Android app.
 They have a great one end to end AES 128 bit encryption.
 Number one in customer satisfaction.
 I think it's a great platform.
 I think you should try it for your next presentation.
 Go to webinar.com slash podcast, turn your next presentation into a conversation.
 Go to webinar.com slash podcast.
 We thank them so much.
 They kind of came to us late in the years that we'd like to sponsor the best ofs and
 we said, yeah, I like that idea.
 Thank you.
 Go to webinar.
 Now, we continue with Steve and Tom.
 So I got, no, I just still sound all that.
 Okay, let's back up a little bit here.
 If I can just create by running the program money, aren't we running into the leaves and
 water problem where we just get runaway inflation and the currency is valueless?
 So yes, except that it's all controlled.
 It is the way it functions is that new coins, new bitcoins are generated on the network when
 a node, and for example, if you're running the program, you are one node when a node finds
 the solution to a hard problem.
 Now, this is really very clever the way this works because it prevents people from being
 able to create currency at will.
 Back in '97, I think it was 1997, someone named Adam Back came up with a concept for
 anti spam, which he called proof of work.
 The idea was that spammers function because they're able to just spew out email at virtually
 zero cost.
 It doesn't cost them anything to send out email.
 So as a consequence, we're all being deluged with email, which it's expensive for us to
 receive, not expensive for them to send.
 So Adam said, what if we come up with a way of making it expensive for someone to send
 email?
 And the way we do that is we create a computational burden, which we don't have the technology
 to short circuit, where they have to do a substantial amount of work in order to sort
 of validate an email.
 And on this show, we've talked about hashing a lot.
 Hashing, of course, is a valuable technique that takes an arbitrary length input and turns
 it into hashes it down into a digest of a fixed length.
 So imagine like take SHA 256, which is the secure hashing algorithm, which produces a
 256 bit result.
 Imagine if in order to qualify for sending email, you have to hash the email header such
 that some number of the first bits out of the 256 bits are all zero.
 So if you just hash an email header at random, the most significant bit has a 50% chance
 of being a one or zero.
 So you increment a sort of a fudge factor and then hash it again until you get that first
 bit that's a zero, but say that to qualify, the header has to have a hash where the first
 20 bits, for example, are all zero, well, it's going to take two to the 20 operations
 to guarantee that.
 So an average half that number of hashes have to be tried.
 So the idea is this forces someone to do a huge amount of work trying to fudging the
 header in order to get all like the first X number of bits of the hash to be zero.
 So in practice, you could set the difficulty so that it might take somebody two seconds
 to do the work on a one gigahertz PC.
 But that would mean that it takes a spammer two seconds per email, which is vastly more
 computation time than it takes them now.
 And so on an individual basis, you don't notice that that much exactly.
 But if you are trying to send, you know, vast amounts of, you know, which I guess could
 negatively impact legitimate bulk email, like newsletters and things like that too.
 And actually, that's exactly why the idea did not take off was that it was still, while
 yes, it would be burdensome for spammers, it exactly, as you said, there are legitimate
 mass mailers.
 And if we, you know, if we did anything to allow them through, then the spammers would
 come through too.
 So it had to be all or nothing.
 And it was too much work for, for legitimate mass mailers.
 But it was a really interesting concept.
 And Satoshi borrowed that concept from, from that Adam back proposed back in 97 for this.
 So here's the way it works.
 The, the system is, so imagine that there are among all these peers, there are people
 exchanging value, they're exchanging bitcoins, a Bitcoin exchange is somebody wants to send
 somebody else some Bitcoinage.
 So they have a, the whole system works with a, a symmetric key system, a public key system
 where they have both a public key and a private key.
 They take some amount of Bitcoinage and, and put their public key and sort of associate
 their, or include their public key in the transaction.
 So the public key of the person, it is, it is being sent to.
 And then they sign it with their private key.
 So, so what that creates is that creates a transaction that only they could have originated
 because they're the only ones who have their private key, which they keep secret.
 That transaction is broadcast into this peer to peer network to all the nodes in the network.
 And everyone's transactions are broadcast.
 Now it's easy for anyone to verify that transaction because they know the public key of the signer
 and that allows them to verify the signature.
 They can't sign it themselves, but they can verify the signature.
 So, so that allows them to verify the transaction.
 Now what we have to do is we need to prevent that the person who's just depleted their
 Bitcoinage by giving some away from giving the same Bitcoins away again.
 So, and that, so that's clearly one of the hard things to solve about this.
 So the way we do this is over every so often all of the all of the transactions which have
 occurred since the, okay, there's sort of a problem of chicken and egg here because I
 have to explain multiple things at once for this thing to hang together.
 There is this notion of blocks, a block is a collection of transactions which have been,
 which have been sort of adopted by the network.
 And the block which is this collection of transactions is the thing which work is done
 to create in the same way that I was talking about work being done to, to, to create this
 special hash for email headers, a, the, the work being done to create this block is what
 all the nodes on the network are busy doing.
 So all the nodes receive transactions and the, the, a, a block is chained to all the previous
 blocks by taking the, the hash of the previous block as, as part of the next block, which
 means that essentially you have a forward moving chain of, of blocks, which are, which
 are linked by the, by the, by the hash of the previous block, there is a genesis, what's
 called the genesis block, which was created on January 3rd of 2009.
 So just a little over two years ago when the system began, there was an anchor block which
 is embedded into the, all of these nodes in, in, into the code in the nodes, when a, when,
 when someone downloads the program and turns it on, they, they, they go to an IRC chat room,
 that is the, the, the, the code autonomously goes to an IRC chat room, joins the room,
 and that's how it learns about all the other nodes or many of the other nodes on the network.
 And then interconnects to them and receives the entire history of all previous blocks,
 that is this, this, this block chain anchored by the genesis block, all the way to the
 most recent block that anyone has created.
 So and in it sounds like it could become computational, computationally extensive over time though,
 right?
 Again, yes, except that there's another clever thing that turns out there's a way to compress
 these so that, so that once the blocks are old enough and no one cares about the individual
 transaction details, then you no longer really need to care about them.
 The idea is you, you need the transaction details long enough to, to make sure that nobody,
 so, so the transaction details are available in the network so that no one is able to reissue
 the same bitcoins again, but, but at some point, then it becomes impossible for them
 to because it, because the blocks become old enough and you do not need to, it turns out
 you're able to compress these blocks and make them a lot smaller.
 So and I think the growth rate is estimated at something like 4.2 megabytes per year would
 be the maximum amount of storage that this architecture requires.
 So it ends up really not being very much over time.
 So, so what happens is there, there's this, this sort of chain of blocks.
 Now all the nodes in the network are competing with each other to create the next block.
 And it's the node which wins, the node which first does the amount of work required to,
 to essentially create the next block that, that earns 50 bitcoins.
 And so, and, and, and this all sort of scales in the right way, I'll explain in a second.
 So, so all of the nodes are cranking away, they're, they are taking all the transactions
 which have not yet been encased in a block and, and they hash all of that along with the
 hash of the previous block, which that anchors them together and means that you're not able
 to, to, to, to create a block that isn't linked to the prior one, hash it all together and
 then, and then the, there's a certain amount of difficulty, which is of finding the a block
 that functions by, by exactly as we were talking, having a hash with some number of, of zeros
 from the left end going down. And at the moment, I think that number is 12 at this point in
 time, you have to, you, so, so all the nodes are, are, are, are tweaking a little fudge
 factor in the hash, trying to find, trying to build a block, which has 12 zeros at the
 leading part of, of this 256 bit, SHA 256 hash. As soon as a node finds it, it declares
 success, broadcasts that to the network. Remember that while it's extremely difficult to, to
 find the, the, the, um, the pattern that makes the hash, it's incredibly easy to verify it,
 you know, verifying the hash just requires, you know, doing the hash of the block and
 seeing that, oh, look, somebody did create a block that's got all those zeros. And the
 first transaction in every, in any block is paying yourself 50 bit coins, but it's only,
 but if you can make that block valid, that then that transaction in the block of paying
 yourself 50 bit coins is validated by the network. So, so, so the, we've actually had
 two blocks created since we started explaining what blocks are, by the way, forgive a little
 estimate of how there are people out there using this. Yes. In fact, there is a, there's
 a site called, I think it's block track block explorer is the one that I'm at. That's the
 why I keep in track of this. Yep. Block Explorer allows you, it's a website that is participating
 in this peer to peer network, which allows you to go look at the history of all the blocks
 that have been created so far. Now, is this, is this a worry that all of your finances
 are now going to be in public? Can people look at this and figure out how much money
 you're spending and who you're giving it to? Well, that's one of the other beauties is
 that the, the only thing which is known, this is a completely anonymous currency system,
 the, I mean, like more anonymous than anything else, the only thing that is known is a, is,
 is your public key. So, when, when you, when you download this software and fired up on
 your machine and started running, the first thing it does is to create a key pair. And
 so you will see, for example, if you find the EFF Bitcoin donation, they show their public
 key and, and there are various other organizations that accept Bitcoin, they show their public
 key. So, so when you look at the, at the history of transactions, all you're seeing is this
 random ASCII gibberish, which is, you know, the, the public key converted into ASCII and,
 and people keep their private key private, but there's no way of knowing who anyone who,
 who is behind any public key and you, the, the, the big, the Bitcoin client will happily
 produce key pairs till the cows come home. You can make more key pairs anytime you want.
 So you're not even, there's no, not even any way to track somebody by like, Oh, look,
 there's the same guy who did a transaction here. He did it here. Only if you did not
 create another public key, would that be the case? But you are free to create new, you
 know, essentially the, the public key is a represent is a temporary, pure binary representation
 of you, which you're free to retire and create a new one anytime you want.
 I just, I just downloaded it and started it. It's not creating. It says I'm not connected.
 It's not creating anything. Is that because I'm not in idle time, it has to be idle to
 start generating those coins automatically? Well, yes. And okay. So many things have happened
 in the last two years. First of all, this began to get traction and people began having
 fun with this. The way the system works is, and I need to get this right, is the the the
 coin creation rate is is 300 coins per hour within the entire system. And your CPU, your
 CPU speed, the ratio of your CPU speed over the total CPU speed within the entire Bitcoin
 network determines the probability that you will be able to solve the puzzle of of of
 creating one of these blocks. So it's estimated, for example, that it would that at this point,
 I think it was December 2010. So about two months ago, there was there were enough nodes
 actively cranking away that it would take you about a year to generate 50 Bitcoins. That
 is so so you're not going to see it happen quickly. Now, what happened is, as these things
 started getting valuable, sort of started becoming worth something where you I mean,
 you can actually trade if if you happen to get lucky and your node solved one of these
 solved the most recent block that everybody was working on before anybody else, you'd
 get 50 Bitcoins. Today, there is a an exchange that will transfer that in US dollars, for
 example, into your PayPal account. So you you actually can make money. Now, you can imagine
 then that people said, wait a minute, this seems like a good idea. Well, there's something
 that's much more powerful than even multi core CPUs. And that's GPUs, graphics processing
 units. Now Google bit Bitcoin space minor, M I N E R as in a gold miner. What's happened
 is that there are people on the net that have built Bitcoin creating boxes with as many
 graphics processing units as they can get with fans cooling them, they're overclocked,
 they're pouring free on over them. These things are running 24 seven like oil derricks. So
 drilling for Bitcoin, they really are there. They're they're literally they're literally
 creating Bitcoin edge. Now, the cool thing is all of this was anticipated in the original
 system. Because the immediate response to the Bitcoin network of the presence of of massive
 Bitcoin computation power, which essentially allowed the people who had these machines
 to to be printing money, you know, minting bitcoins with a much greater probability than,
 you know, that somebody who just had a had a CPU running along, the system automatically
 changes and changed the the problem difficulty in order to stabilize the rate at which coins
 are coming into the system. And here's the deal. There will never ever ever be more
 than 21 million bitcoins created. The way this works is that the difficulty of this problem
 that is being solved, that is this hashing problem where you're trying to find leading
 zeros in the hash, it's it's adjusted continuously by the network. So that in the first four
 years of the Bitcoin network, and we're two years in now, in the first four years, half
 of that total number of bitcoins will be created. That is 10,500,000 bitcoins will be created
 in the first four years. In the second four years, half again, that is for only 5,250,000
 years four through eight. In years eight through 12, that is the next four years. Again, that
 amount is halved. And so it the the rate of of coinage creation will be decreasing exponentially
 leveling off so that it so that in the far future, only 21 million will ever be created.
 So we have a we have a controlled and known in rate of inflation within the system. It's
 and it makes sense because initially, as the system is coming online, as as goods and services
 are being made available and are trading within the system, you want to have more currency
 being pumped into the network so that you have bitcoins to trade, but you don't want
 it to go forever. Now, the problem would be, of course, if we absolutely cap the total
 number of coinage at 21 million, then and there there comes, you know, a much greater
 demand for this. We the tendency is to want more. Well, the solution is that you do you're
 not forced to trade in integer amounts of bitcoins. That is the the UI right now gives
 you two decimal digits of of coinage. So you're able to create, for example, you you could
 exchange 0.01 of a Bitcoin and the but the technology supports eight decimal digits.
 So right now, we're only using two. So so that allows for deflation over time because
 we're we're absolutely capping the the total number of coinage at this 21 million mark.
 And we know that it's going to be declining over time. And it doesn't matter how much
 GPU power is put into the system. This system adapts so that the problems being solved scale
 the difficulty scales up to balance the amount of processing power in the entire network.
 And some people have commented that the the question then becomes, are you spending more
 money on electricity and cooling for these crazy Bitcoin generating engines than the money
 you produce. And over time, it looks like that will be the limiting factor. You know, it's
 like, yay, I mean, I've, you know, created this insane work machine to create bitcoins,
 but gee, you know, my electric bill went up more than the money that I'm making.
 And PG&E isn't taking bitcoins yet. So if there's also a cool site that I got a kick
 out of called the Bitcoin faucet, the Bitcoin foster trying to use that they the rate limit
 has been exceeded. I think everybody's going to get there. Explain what it is. It is, it
 is just a fun way that somebody can get some free bitcoins. People who have them can donate
 them to the site. And, you know, the guy thanks you very much. And as long as he's got enough
 supply, he'll give you some bitcoins at the moment. When I look before the podcast, he
 was giving 0.05 bitcoins per visitor. If he went his balance of available bitcoins that
 he's able to distribute for free is high enough. He increases that. But if he falls below a
 certain mark, he decreases it in order to conserve his supply. There is a there's an online buyer
 and seller escrow service where so that two people are able to agree that they're each
 happy with the exchange of whatever it is they they they exchange for example in the
 real world in order to allow a Bitcoin transaction to occur. There are a number of of online
 exchanges. You're able to where you're able to buy and sell bitcoins. There's there's
 online charts where you could look at at the at the rate at which bitcoins are being bought
 and sold and their and their relative currencies. This is available in a huge number of currencies
 and a whole bunch of languages. And and essentially it is extremely cool crypto, which I mean,
 this has been pounded on and looked at and it looks to me like the guy has has solved
 the problems and has created a virtual currency that floats all by itself that is completely
 private that I mean, you know, obviously you you you need somebody who's going to agree
 with you that you want to, you know, exchange this coinage, but this thing exists and it's
 taking off and I wanted our listeners to know about it. Oh, yeah, very cool. Really fascinating
 stuff. I've been playing with it while we've been talking to I have no balance though and
 I can't the faucet is off right now, but at least I'm connected finally. So I hope so
 it did you did find your network. Yeah, I finally found the network. I have no connections
 yet though. One of the things they one of the things they recommend if our listeners want
 to play with this is you need you will get much better connectivity. If you do port forwarding
 of port 8333 from from through your router, which typically most people have or your firewall
 to the application. Okay, that way other nodes that are that are informed about you are able
 to make incoming connections to you. And it's not just you making outgoing connections to
 them. And that'll allow you to participate in in the network. But I'm I would encourage
 our listeners to poke around as you have been Tom. There are pictures of these people's,
 you know, GPU boxes that they've made with with you know, with all these fans all over
 them and discussions about the giga, let's see giga hashes per second in the network.
 I'm trying to think I've made some notes about it somewhere about the oh, the average rate
 of block creation. Oh, yeah, one one eighty six giga hashes per second is the total network
 hashing strength. That is there are one point, 186 billion hash operations being performed
 within the entire network trying to solve the problem of the next block creation. The one
 who does gets 50 bitcoins. Oh, and that all that that number also decreases over time.
 So that it's for the first 210,000 blocks, the value is 50 bitcoins per block that if
 your computer solves the puzzle before somebody else's, then for the next 210 blocks, that's
 cut in half to 25 bitcoins. Then for the next 210,000 blocks to 12.5 bitcoins and a six
 and a quarter bitcoins and so forth on down. So this whole system is designed to to scale
 correctly and basically create, I mean, it create a secure stable currency with with,
 you know, real world value, which it has now. I mean, you can sell, you can buy and sell
 bitcoins. You know, if you were, if you want to do, you could take a hundred dollars and
 go buy some bitcoins and they know their, their electronic currency, you could then send
 those anonymously to someone else and they could cash them in to their own currency or
 back into dollars or whatever they want. I mean, this exists now and it looks like it's,
 it's like bulletproof and the, the, the PDF explains the, they really thought through what
 bad guys can do. The only, the only attack which is known on the system would involve
 somebody with massive computational power spoofing the chain because this, it's this
 chain of blocks which provides the integrity for the system. But the longer the chain gets
 and the more good nodes there are, the more impossible it becomes for anyone to, for anyone
 with massive computational power to spoof the chain. So the other thing that has happened
 is there's this notion of pooling individuals have become a little disenchanted with the
 fact that, you know, they've got their quad core I seven cranking away 24 seven. They haven't
 made any money yet. They liked the idea of printing money. The fact is over time, this
 is not going to be feasible. That is the way to get rich is, is, is not to print money.
 This is, it's like gold miners, you know, like during the gold rush you ran out and you,
 you hope to go strike it rich and find a vein of gold and make money over time. That just
 became less and less feasible because the ground had been picked over and there just
 wasn't gold to be found. Similarly, ultimately, this will be, you know, it's when the coinage
 enters the currency and begins to flow, you know, people will be using it as a store of
 value. But anyway, what I was saying was that people who have been disenchanted, they're
 joining pools of users where they'll all be working together on and pooling their CPU
 resources and then sharing the proceeds appropriately. So you may not get 50 bitcoins, but you may
 get two and a half because you are one, two and a half out of 50th of the CPU resource
 in a pool that, that collectively solved a block. So it, so it's a way for people to,
 you know, see some, you know, have some of the fun of, of, of creating coinage out of
 thin air by, by doing the work that makes the whole network go. And anyway, it is, it is
 that it is the, the work that has to be done, the difficulty of doing the work that keeps
 bad guys from being able to spoof the system because there just, there isn't any, there
 isn't any way to shortcut this, this hashing of the blocks is just brute force work. And
 as more, as more good, like, you know, GPU based systems come online, that hugely raises
 the bar that bad guys would, would have to scale in order to, in order to, to spoof because
 now as the consequence of sort of this phenomenon of using GPUs to create bitcoins, you know,
 the network is scaled. So the rate of coin creation has, has, is still tracking exactly
 what it should. But, but the amount of processing time being required to make that happen has
 just gone through the roof. There's bitcoins in them that are Internet's
 stuff. Anyway, just really, really fascinating. And I mean, it works. We have, we have a,
 a state free crypto secure anonymous real currency now that, that exists. Check it out
 at Bitcoin.org. It's really fun to play around.org. Not.org. Yeah. There's no piracy in the Bitcoin
 world. Thank you, Steve so much for explaining that. That was really fascinating. I, I can't
 wait to poke around with this a little more. I think I'm going to have to do the port forwarding
 that you were talking about to get it. Well, no, I've got one connection now. So I, it seems
 to be slowly, I guess that's what I'd say to new people. If you're looking at this, be
 patient. Give it some time to connect. You might try the port forwarding trick. What port
 was it again? 8333. 8333. All this is documented in the FAQ at Bitcoin.org. And the other thing
 that happens is when you connect, the first thing that happens is your node needs to download
 the history of prior blocks. So that'll take a while, but you'll see progress things and
 so forth. And there is a, on, on the UI, there is an option to say, you know, start making
 Bitcoins. Yeah. Start making money.
