 This is Twit.
 This is Security Now with Steve Gibson, Episode 77 for February 1st, 2007, Microsoft Responds.
 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by AOL Radio at AOL.com/podcast.
 Security Now is brought to you by Astaro, makers of the Astaro Security Gateway on the web at www.ASTARO.com.
 It's time for Security Now everybody's favorite security podcast, and here he is.
 Ladies and gentlemen, the star of our show, Mr. Security Himself.
 Steve Gibson.
 Hey Steve.
 Hey Liam.
 We need a live studio audience.
 We need to be fun to do all that.
 Whistles and cat calls and things.
 Yeah.
 So we are going to address a podcast that we did a couple of episodes ago this week.
 Right.
 I wanted to, in all fairness, I wanted to give Microsoft's response to Peter Gutman's white paper about VISTA DRM some airtime.
 Since I was thinking we could just tell people to go to this link, but it's like, wait a minute.
 This is an audio podcast.
 Let's audioize Microsoft's publicly posted blog response and discuss it.
 Because, you know, obviously Microsoft was not happy by what Peter had to say.
 And so what happened was David Marsh, who is the guy whose name I've seen on all the documentation, on all of the PowerPoint slides that are presented.
 He's the guy at the WinHet conference who exposes for the first time, showed what AACS was, how it works.
 I mean, this is the, you know, the main guy at the center of VISTA's support for AACS.
 And some guy named Nick White, who's with the VISTA team, he has a VISTA team blog.
 On Saturday, January 20th, he posted, essentially asked Dave to come up with 20 questions and answers.
 Which, you know, basically synthetic questions, which Dave felt were being raised by Peter's white paper.
 And to address those, to answer those questions, in going through them.
 And what I'm going to suggest is that you read this video and then I'll sort of react to them and tell you what I think about them.
 And I mean, many of the points are very fair.
 And I think, you know, we're most useful to our security now listeners if we really work to paint a balanced picture.
 I mean, it's certainly, it's been fun to look at the sort of like, okay, what's the dark side of AACS?
 But, you know, many people are wanting to use VISTA, they're going to use VISTA, many are going to have to use VISTA.
 Or when they're buying a new PC, it'll have VISTA on it, and they may not have a choice.
 So, you know, I want to back off from overstating and also give Microsoft the chance to tell their story, their side of the story.
 So, in this particular podcast, I'll play the role of Microsoft.
 I'm Dave Marsh, and shall I just start reading and you stop me when you have something to say?
 Yeah, I think that's perfect.
 Dave begins, "Over the holidays, a paper was distributed that raised questions about the content protection features in Windows VISTA.
 The paper draws sharp conclusions about the implications of those features for our customers.
 As one of the lead program managers for the technologies in question, I'd like to share our view on these questions."
 Windows VISTA, anything from the opposition?
 No.
 Windows VISTA includes content protection infrastructure specifically designed to help ensure the protected commercial audio visual content,
 such as newly released HD DVD or Blu-ray discs, can be enjoyed on Windows VISTA PCs.
 In many cases, this content has policies associated with its use that must be enforced by all playback devices.
 The policies associated with such content are applicable to all types of devices, including Windows VISTA PCs,
 computers running non-Windows operating systems, and standalone consumer electronics devices like DVD players.
 If the policies required protections that Windows VISTA could not support, then the content would not be able to play at all on Windows VISTA PCs.
 Clearly, that isn't a good scenario for consumers who are looking to enjoy great next-generation content experiences on their PCs.
 Now, certainly, he raises the point. Basically, he's trying to say we didn't create this, we didn't do this, and if we didn't offer this kind of DRM content protection,
 then Windows VISTA PCs would not be able to play it. And that is absolutely true.
 I mean, it is the case that the way AACS works is that the content providers through this really super powerful next-generation DRM,
 this digital rights management, they're able to absolutely dictate what devices are able to play.
 So it's only if Microsoft provides an infrastructure which they have with VISTA, which is sufficiently secure and provably secure,
 that then there's any possibility for Windows machines playing this content.
 So it's basically what a number of rebuttals to Peter's argument in Peter's own website said, "Hey, they don't have a choice, they have to do it."
 Right. Essentially, all Windows VISTA is another implementation of AACS much as you will have in any consumer device.
 There will be AACS there if that device is able to play this AACS protected content.
 Peter made an argument, frankly, an argument for which I don't think he has any standing saying, "Hey, Microsoft could have just said we're Microsoft.
 We have 90% of the PC market. We're not going to do it."
 I mean, that's a business argument. That's nothing to do with security, and I don't know if any of us are competent to say whether Microsoft could or could not do that.
 Well, and what Microsoft had done that, we then are faced with the question,
 would high-def content providers essentially have scrapped all their content protection because they're so desperate to have movies playable on personal computers?
 I think it's clear that that's not the case that content providers would say fine.
 If you are not going to give us a secure platform, Windows users, XP users, VISTA users, any users, just like, by the way, Linux users,
 and I don't know where Mac is on this, but for example, Linux users are not able to play high-def content either because Linux doesn't bring all of this protection that's necessary.
 And we are seeing the danger in XP users being able to play this.
 As we talked about last week, this mueslick64 character is using now a known plaintext attack on the encryption used with this content.
 So, again, if Microsoft had said we're not going to play ball, then I think it's very clear that Windows VISTA would not be able to play high-def content.
 So, I will continue on here, associating usage policies with commercial content is not new to Windows VISTA or to the industry.
 In fact, much of the functionality discussed in the paper has been part of previous versions of Windows and has not resulted in significant consumer problems.
 In fact, much of the functionality discussed in the paper has been part of previous versions of Windows.
 That's absolutely not true.
 If I will defend David's need to have this in VISTA because there's no other way if VISTA is going to be able to play HD DVDs, he cannot say that much of the functionality discussed in the paper.
 Because, I mean, the paper was all about the bad parts of DRM in VISTA, none of the happy news.
 Well, I mean, he could say, you know, okay, so there is a random number generator. I mean, I guess you could say some sort of root technologies were there.
 But none of it, but there wasn't an AACS layer.
 We had no tilt bits that we had no encrypted video path and all that other stuff.
 No. So, I mean, I'm sorry.
 He says, he continues on as evidenced by the widespread consumer use of digital media in Windows XP, in other words, no consumer problems.
 For example, standard definition DVD playback has required selective use of macrovision ACP on analog television and output since it was introduced in the 1990s.
 DVD playback on and in Windows has always supported this.
 I guess he's saying earlier generation forms of copy protection like macrovision.
 He also goes on to say the ability to restrict audio outputs, for example, SPIDIF for certain types of content has been available since Windows Millennium Edition and has been available in all subsequent versions of Windows.
 That's interesting.
 I didn't know that.
 Yeah, I didn't know that.
 The certified output protection protocol, COP, was released over two years ago for Windows XP and provides applications with the ability to detect output types and enable certain protections on video outputs like HDCP, CGMS-A and macrovision ACP.
 So he's pointing out, look, there's been copy protection technologies in Windows all along.
 And they haven't been a big problem for consumers.
 Nobody's blown their stack saying my SPIDIF won't work because, although macrovision has caused problems all along.
 Oh, it always will.
 I mean, it's just a yucky analog technology that messes up what should be a good video signal.
 You can't really say people aren't upset about macrovision.
 Right. He goes on, again, quoting, just so this is clear, this isn't me talking, this is Dave's response.
 He's the lead, Dave Marsh is a lead program manager for Windows video handling and this is his blog response to Peter Goodman's article.
 He goes on to say, quote, "It's important to emphasize that while Windows Vista has the necessary infrastructure to support commercial content scenarios, this infrastructure is designed to minimize impact on other types of content
 and other activities in the same PC."
 That was one of Peter's big contentions is that the whole PC suffers for this, for example.
 And I've got to say, Leo, that anecdotally we don't really know why yet, but people are reporting Vista is not as good a media platform as XP.
 I've seen a lot of posts in my news groups and elsewhere where someone has upgraded themselves to Vista, got it all running, done some stuff,
 just playing non-protected content on Vista and they picture stutters, it's jerky, it's not looking nearly as good as XP was, then they'll fall back to XP and it's working much more smoothly.
 So it may very well be that there is some impact to this, unfortunately, even when playing non-protected content and it's going to be systemic throughout the all of Windows Vista.
 I mean, to be fair point out, it could just be suboptimal drivers, and Vista is just now out, but Microsoft has been optimizing drivers the entire time since December or November when Vista RTM came out.
 So there are lots of reasons for it.
 I think it's early to say what the case is, whether it's a problem or not.
 He gives an example, if a user were reviewing medical imagery concurrently with playback of video, which required image constraint, only the commercial video would be constrained, not the medical image, or other things on the user's desktop.
 Similarly, if someone was listening to the commercial audio content while viewing medical imagery, none of the video protection mechanisms would be activated at all, and the displayed images would again be unaffected.
 And of course, that was one example that Peter gave of somebody listening to protected audio, some medical image processing guy who was in Peter was concerned that the fact that there was, he said that the system was all or nothing was his reading.
 And I'm sure Peter believed that that was the case, so I think this is a case of a clear mistake in the way the system works, understanding the documents. I mean, I have to say too, that I mean, from what I saw, what Peter stated, it was entirely believable and reasonable.
 So David is putting to rest that concern that if any protected content is anywhere in the system, then the whole system locks itself into paranoia mode and like, you know, makes the screens blurry and so forth. Clearly, that's not the case.
 Anybody who has ever read specs and designed software will absolutely agree with the software doesn't always reflect what the specs say. It may have been the intent. It may have not been the intent, but it's perfectly possible that the documents read one way and the software does something else.
 That's a very good point.
 Contrary to claims made in the paper, the content protection mechanisms do not make Windows Vista PCs less reliable than they would be otherwise, if anything, they have the opposite effect.
 For example, because they will lead to better driver quality control.
 That's certainly, at best, that's an unsupportable statement.
 That's a spin.
 That's a spin.
 I mean, that one's really hard to get behind.
 Certainly, we're talking about much more complexity.
 It is the case, though, that certain classes of mistakes, that is the sorts of mistakes that would lead to a driver leaking content.
 That's something that any driver author will have a real concern not to allow to happen.
 Basically, Microsoft, through this, is raising the stakes on errors by forcing driver makers to make sure that they just essentially creating a much greater penalty if there is a problem.
 You could say, "Well, that's going to lead to better drivers."
 We just don't know yet.
 We've raised our standards.
 Well, it's not exactly what they were doing.
 They're saying we're making it much less tolerant of faults.
 Now, as I was going to say, we have these tilt bits all over the place.
 It's like, "Well, let's hope those don't go off."
 Going on to quote Dave, "The paper implies that Microsoft decides which protection should be active at any given time."
 This is not the case.
 The content protection infrastructure in Windows Vista provides a range of a la carte options that allows applications playing back protected content to properly enable the protections required by the policies established for such content by the content owner/service provider.
 In this way, the PC functions the same as any other consumer electronics device.
 With that introduction here are the top 20 questions and answers, so we'll go on to those.
 Yeah, I think that's fair.
 Although I have to say, I did not read what Dave is suggesting in Peter's paper.
 He says, "The paper implies that Microsoft decides which protection should be active."
 I didn't get that impression.
 So he's disabusing us as something that I don't think Peter said.
 I think it's very clear that Microsoft facilitates whatever protection the content provider wishes to have.
 It makes this what an operating system provider does.
 They provide a platform with the technologies that are required, and then the playback device decides which ones it wants to take advantage of.
 Exactly.
 All right, now this is probably where you wanted me to start reading, but anyway.
 No, no, I'm glad we did that.
 I'm glad we have a foundation there, and so we have 20 questions and answers.
 I have to just say that I've read all this already, and I think we'll see that some of these questions are questions Dave wanted to ask so that he could answer them.
 They're not necessarily things that a fair reader of Peter's paper would have come away believing or being concerned about.
 All right, here we go.
 Do these question one.
 So again, Dave Marsh, this is him posing a question.
 Do these content protection requirements apply equally to the consumer electronics industry supplied player devices such as an HD DVD or Blu-ray player?
 He answers.
 Generally, the requirements are equivalent for all devices.
 For example, an HD DVD or Blu-ray disc always requires HDCP protection for the DVI HDMI outputs, regardless of the type of device playing the disc.
 There are some cases such as DVD video where PCs have slightly different protection requirements and CE devices.
 But these differences are mainly historical and as dictated by the licenses associated with the systems providing access to the content.
 For example, CSS for DVD.
 And I think that's completely fair.
 Essentially, Windows Vista becomes an HD or Blu-ray high-def content player just like you could buy off the shelf.
 The subtext is, hey, we're just like everybody else.
 We're just doing what we have to.
 Exactly.
 Question two.
 When are Windows Vista's content protection features actually used?
 He answers.
 Windows Vista content protection mechanisms are only used when required by the policy associated with the content being played.
 For Windows Vista experiences, if the content does not require a particular protection, that protection mechanism is not used.
 And I think that's, again, very fair and a balanced appraisal.
 It's not like Microsoft is adding DRM where it didn't exist before and they're not basically constraining the channel that the content provider has not required be constrained.
 And part of the power and flexibility of AACS is that there is such a strong capability for usage policy to be bound in with the content.
 And so, again, this is just being a fair playback device and if it weren't, it wouldn't be allowed to be a playback device at all.
 Right.
 Makes sense.
 Will the playback, is this question three?
 Yeah, question three.
 Will the playback quality be reduced on some video output types?
 Image quality constraints, David says, are only active when required by the policy associated with the content being played and then only apply to that specific content, not to any other content on the user's desktop.
 This is that medical imaging example as a practical matter, image constraint will typically result in content being played at no worse than standard definition television resolution.
 In the case of HD optical media formats, HD DVD and Blu-ray, the constraint requirements is 520k pixels per frame, i.e. roughly 960 by 540.
 That's still higher than the native resolution of content distributed in the DVD video format.
 We feel this still yields a great user experience, even when using a high definition screen.
 Yeah, I think, again, that's an absolute fair and accurate rendition of what's really going on.
 You can imagine that a laptop user who had an HD DVD drive in his laptop buys it because he wants to be able to watch movies on his laptop.
 And so he would have to have Vista. He would not be able to do this with XP because XP doesn't provide this.
 Vista integrated in with a laptop that's got an integrated LCD screen and drive.
 It's simply going to be an HD or Blu-ray DVD player. It's going to work.
 Actually, a little better because it's 520p instead of 480p.
 Yeah, exactly. I mean, not substantially, but a little bit.
 Well, but that's not what Peter asserted. I mean, Peter was saying it would really go down in quality below 480.
 No, actually, I think that I think Peter was talking about the 520k pixel of frame.
 He just didn't like the idea that there was this artificial constraint imposed by Windows.
 And again, David's saying, wait a minute, this is not our imposition.
 And then it is true that again, the content provider says, if you're not going to provide digital encryption all the way to the screen
 where it finally jumps out off the screen and travels by light into the user's eyeballs,
 then you must provide the following constriction.
 So again, Windows is simply enforcing the policy that the content provider has bound in with the content.
 And I mean, so yes, the content provider could say, we want it to look really smeary, 200k pixels or 100k pixels.
 Again, Microsoft has no control over that.
 So David is assuming that the content provider is not going to ask for something blurrier than 520k pixels per frame.
 So they could.
 Yes, and we don't really know that.
 Okay, well, this affects things like medical imagery applications. David answers image constraints only apply to protected content being played
 and not to the desktop as a whole.
 Therefore, if the resolution of other non protected media, such as medical images, is not affected.
 Right.
 Good.
 And so that's great.
 So clearly, if you're running your medical imaging utility in a window and you also have high death playing in another window
 on your screen, the high death video constraint may cause that to be blurred, but not a separate window running on the same
 system, which is displaying, you know, completely crisp, non-resolution, lowered images.
 So, you know, it's certainly possible for winners to do that.
 And David is asserting that's the way it works.
 I would be surprised if it did not.
 Yeah, he's actually so adamant in this assertion.
 I think we can trust that that's the case.
 Otherwise, that would cast this entire document to dad.
 Well, and there's no reason for it not to be.
 I mean, you can.
 I've looked at the architecture.
 That's the case.
 Right.
 I've looked at the architecture and it's clear from their diagrams that they have the ability to just protect a certain path of
 video through the system separate from all others.
 Do things such as HFS, hardware functionality scan affect the ability of the open source community to write a driver.
 And this is another one of Peter's very strong criticisms.
 Yep.
 He says, David says, no, HFS uses additional chip characteristics other than those needed to write a driver.
 HFS requirements should not prevent the disclosure of all the information needed to write drivers.
 Just to recap, Peter said that there has to be some secret sauce in every driver that cannot be opened publicly.
 That's kind of a requirement of the content protection.
 So Dave said, no, but you still can expose everything you need to know.
 Yes, exactly.
 So he's coming at it in the classic sort of black hat white hack fashion by which I mean you're able to look at one thing
 and spin it in two different directions depending upon what's best for you.
 So Peter was saying that you cannot completely document the hardware or it would be possible for someone to write a software emulator
 for that hardware and fake out the system to believe that what they had written in software was actually protected hardware
 where it wouldn't be and Dave was coming at it from the other side saying, well, okay, but having it is necessary not to disclose everything
 in order to allow the hardware functionality scan to verify the hardware, but he's saying even though it's necessary not to disclose everything,
 it's not necessary that everything be disclosed in order to write fully functional drivers.
 And so I agree with him.
 You have to rely on, I mean, as always, if you're going to write an open source driver,
 you just have to hope that the company that made the hardware is exposing everything you need to know.
 And that's always been a crapshoot.
 Right.
 Well, the VISTA content protection, so I guess if a hardware company really wants an open source driver, in other words,
 they can expose enough information to make that possible.
 Exactly. And they can still keep some things private that will not be part of that open source driver
 that will not hurt the driver's ability to function while still giving them the leverage they need
 of making sure that their driver cannot be emulated by software.
 He goes on, "Will the VISTA content protection board robustness recommendations?"
 Oh, meaning the AACS, for example.
 Okay.
 Will the VISTA content protection board robustness recommendations increase the cost of graphics cards
 and reduce the number of build options?
 He responds, "Everything was moving to be integrated on the one chip anyway,
 and this is independent of content protection recommendations given that cost, particularly chip cost,
 is most heavily influenced by volume, is actually better to avoid making things optional
 through the use of external chips."
 It is a happy side effect that this technology trainer also reduces the number of vulnerable tracks on the board.
 Yeah, okay, that's another spin.
 That's a big fat spin.
 That's a big spin.
 I mean, he was certainly feeling defensive.
 That is, Dave Marsh was feeling defensive against the allegation that hardware needed to be changed,
 that, for example, you couldn't have a hardware board that didn't have some components on it,
 which was leaving traces unused where you might have content leaking out of those traces.
 Well, my feeling is this is not something that David ought to try defending.
 He asked the question, so I guess he wanted to answer it. Unfortunately, his answer is not very convincing in this case.
 It is the case that in order to have a system, and this was our original premise, Leo,
 when you and I first talked about this, is essentially adding AACS and this level of DRM
 is a heavy impact to Windows.
 But it's not just software, it's hardware, because, of course, a deliverable solution is both hardware
 and software. So if you're going to protect the software, it does no good not to protect the hardware.
 So Microsoft that only makes a software is trying to defend the need to also protect the hardware.
 I don't think this is Microsoft's problem. So again, that's why I don't think David needed to address this.
 I agree, however, that it would be much more convenient for boardmakers, just as Peter said,
 to have the option of populating the boards just as they do now with those components they choose to.
 I don't know that since everything is moving toward one chip argument really holds at all.
 So I think we need to sort of discount that one.
 It's like Martha Stewart saying, "It's a good thing."
 Well, Windows Vista content protection features increased CPU resource consumption.
 Another contention of Peter Garvin.
 Dave, as he said, it's going to slow everything down because the system has to 30 times a second be checking for piracy.
 Oh, and not only that, Leo, but if you're using an external video card as power users want to,
 that cross-bus encryption, you're needing to encrypt at high bandwidth rates.
 That's a huge burden on the system.
 Yeah. And he says, "Yes."
 And David says, "Output content protections are not new requirements for commercial."
 I'm sorry, read the wrong one.
 He said, "Yes."
 Stay the same answer.
 "Yes, however, the use of additional CPU cycles is inevitable, as the PC provides consumers with additional functionality."
 Hey, it's additional functionality.
 You're getting additional functionality.
 Windows Vista's content protection features were developed to carefully balance the need to provide robust protection from commercial content.
 I don't think he means from commercial content. I think he means for commercial content.
 While still enabling great new experiences such as HD DVD or Blu-ray playback.
 Of course, if I don't have an HD DVD player or Blu-ray player, is it still going to eat those CPU cycles, even though I can't?
 No.
 And so here again, first of all, this was a total spin answer.
 Well, he said that.
 And there's no way Microsoft had a choice.
 That is, they had to run encryption at high bandwidth rate across the bus in order not to allow a bus probe to simply grab the high-def video.
 So they're having to encrypt from the driver to the display card hardware across the bus, which requires very high speed.
 In fact, it's so high-speed that AES, the encryption that's used throughout this, is unable to keep up.
 Intel had to come up with an abbreviated cascading AES to be fast enough for software to be able to do this on the fly.
 What I think we're going to find is that a system which is playing high-def content probably cannot really do anything else.
 It's going to pin the processor until-- well, I don't see any way of not saying it's just going to pin the processor.
 I mean, it's not like-- so that's something very different about not playing high-def content.
 So it's not always going to pin the processor. It's only when it's playing high-def content that requires that the hardware bus be encrypted.
 That's such a burden on the system. That's probably all you're going to be able to do.
 On the other hand, that's probably all anybody wants to do.
 If you're playing high-def content, you're in movie-watching mode. You're probably not trying to write letters home at the same time.
 Well, you better not.
 And you may not be able to-- or maybe you could do email.
 See, I think part of the contention was it also uses up CPU resources even when you're not watching content.
 Absolutely.
 Well, it really seems like-- and that's a little bit in the spec gray area-- as though only the things that are required are being brought to bear by Microsoft.
 And certainly, when you're not playing protected content, you're not having your bus encrypted because there's just no one asking for it.
 So it would be nuts for Microsoft to leave this really high overhead stuff on all the time. Therefore, I'm sure they're not.
 It's smart enough to say, "Oh, well, you're not playing on DVDs, so it won't use up your CPU."
 Right.
 Okay.
 Let's see. Aren't there already output content protection features in Windows XP?
 I don't think anybody's asking this question, but I don't think there's a perfect example of a question that nobody asked.
 He chooses to answer it anyway.
 But wait a minute, aren't there already these things in XP?
 Yes, he says. Well, really.
 Output content protections are not new requirements for commercial content.
 The CSS content protection system for DVD video discs requires output protections such as Mac revision, ACP, and limiting the resolution on component video outputs on standard definition.
 Windows XP is supported these requirements for some time.
 Which is really interesting because I have never, ever heard of any resolution limitation.
 I mean, I've never seen an API or a spec or anything that indicated there was resolution constraint happening on component video outputs.
 That's news to me. I mean, I'm going to take David as word because he's the expert on this, but again, nobody was really asking.
 And if you ever ask, we've got the answer.
 Is content protection something that is tied to high definition video?
 He answers, well, HD content has some unique content protection requirements. Many of the requirements apply to commercial content generally independent of resolution.
 Okay, who asked this question?
 And what does it have to do with the subject at hand?
 Exactly.
 There must be a reason he brought this up.
 Okay, is content protection something that is tied to high definition video? The idea being, is this all just about high definition video? And he's saying, no, no, no, there's streaming video.
 There's audio can ask for it, blah, blah, blah. We're just a big happy DRM platform.
 We'll provide it for anybody who wants it.
 In fact, he goes on to ask what about spit if audio connections and answers his own question. Windows Vista does not require spit if to be turned off.
 But Windows Vista continues to support the ability to turn it off for certain content, a capability that has been present in Windows for many years.
 Additionally, in order to support the requirements of some types of content, Windows Vista supports the ability to constrain the quality of the audio component of that content.
 In other words, like image constraint.
 Exactly. You're able to make it muddy.
 Similar to image constraint for video, this quality constraint only applies to the audio from content whose policy requires the constraint, not to any other audio being played concurrently on the system.
 As a practical matter, these audio restrictions are not widely used today.
 So I guess it sounds like the audio could be down sampled and, you know, it's resolution limited in the same way that they're able to do with video if that's what the content provider says they want.
 And he does point out, and I think it's important, nobody's doing this. In fact, nobody's doing it in video yet either, as far as I can tell.
 So this is all kind of, you know, could be, might be.
 Will component, that's the YP, B, P, R, what is that?
 Chromium, red, and I can never remember the blue.
 Anyway, you know which ones we're talking about.
 In video efforts, be disabled by video windows vista under content protection. Similar to spit if windows vista does not require component video outputs to be disabled, but rather enables the enforcement of the usage policy set by content owners or service providers,
 including with respect to output restrictions and image constraints.
 So he's saying it's not our fault that we allow spit if to be disabled, but we have to allow it. Yes, we have a component or or spit if right where, you know, it's not our fault that we allow it to be turned off.
 We have to make it disabled a bowl in order to satisfy the demands of the content providers.
 So again, they're just sort of being the middleman between the content providers and the end user, which, you know, is fair.
 Sure, it's fair. Yeah.
 If you want that sort of thing, you want that sort of thing.
 Will echo, actually, that's really for probably for things like set top boxes, cable, cable companies might turn off component and force you to use HDMI if you're watching HD content, things like that.
 Yeah, exactly.
 Well, echo cats. So I guess Windows Media Center would have to do the same. Well, echo cancellation worked less well for premium content. We believe I don't even know what echo cancellation is. We'll find out.
 He responds, we believe that Windows Vista provides applications with access to sufficient information to successfully build high quality echo cancellation functionality. What's he talking about?
 The reason this is an issue is that the way echo cancellation functions is by feeding back into the echo cancellation circuit some of the output to feed you feed it back in sort of like 180 degrees out of phase in order to cancel it sending itself back up the line.
 Peter made the point that if audio was being constrained, then the echo cancellation system would inherently be less effective because it wouldn't be able to perfectly match the essentially the echo signal, which it would otherwise be.
 And so David is saying that don't worry about it. It still works. It's like, okay, we'll see. I don't know that. And also it's worth noting that, that if what Microsoft is saying and that there would only be audio constraint for protected content, one wonders
 why you would ever have echo cancellation happening for protected content. You would typically have it for VoIP, for example, when two people are talking, you want echo cancellation so that you so that you're not hearing yourself at the, you know, coming back the other end.
 But, you know, a normal dialogue between people over a VoIP call that's not going to be protected content. Therefore, there would be no artificial constriction to the audio. So I do think that Peter was raising as theoretical point that would in fact never affect anybody in the real world.
 Yeah, that makes sense. Will it mean there will this is actually a direct response to a question or something a statement in Peter's article will it mean that will no longer be unified graphics drivers Peter said that's it for unified graphics drivers.
 David's response, the windows VISTAs content protection requirements for graphics drivers will not leave to move lead to movement away from unified drivers. In fact, all graphic drivers shipped with Windows Vista are unified drivers. Well, there you go.
 I mean, it's interesting though, because what what remembered that Peter's point was if you had a single driver, which covered a broad range of cards with different capabilities. If a HD card were found to need its driver revoked since you had a unified driver, then you would be revoking a huge
 set of cards that is you'd be revoking all drivers that because you had a single unified driver that was covering your whole line of cards. So he was saying this would force manufacturers to do per car drivers, rather than unified drivers.
 So I don't think Dave has really addressed that issue at all. He says, well, when does Vista, you know, is using unified drivers and they're just fine is like, yeah, well, let's hope that none of them are ever revoked, because then then, you know, whole families of cards will die on mass.
 So he's not saying there's no technical reason you can't do a unified graphics driver. It's just it might be a good idea. Apparently, Microsoft doesn't think that's ever going to happen. That's mass. It really does sound like that's the case. Or, and I think we'll see that if they, you know, they're hoping and assuming they would always be able to replace a driver that is soon to be revoked with a new driver that would
 have then different keys and would fix the problem that was that went wrong with a bad driver. And after that, you know, so, so essentially the replacement would arrive before the revocation of the prior version.
 Okay. Right. So in other words, yeah, okay. Right. You'll get a new version before they make your own on that work. Yeah. Well, when does Vista audio content protection mean that HDMI outputs can't be shown as spit if outputs.
 Yeah. Apparently in the UI, it actually shows the, you know, HDMI is video. Exactly. Dave says, it's better if they show us different codec types as it allows the difference to be reflected in the UI that's providing the user help with their configuration and creating a better user experience.
 The user, yeah, wants to know the difference between HDMI and spit if as they are different physical connectors.
 Okay. I don't know why we care about this. I don't even know. Maybe. Okay. Next question. What is revocation and where is it used now? Here's a good question.
 Dave responds, renewal and revocation mechanisms are an important part of providing robust protection for commercial audio visual content.
 Sounds like he's quoting the MPAA. In the rare event that a revocation is required, Microsoft will work with the affected IHV. That's the hardware guy built the card that's going to be revoked.
 Independent hardware vendor. Right. To ensure that a new driver is made available. Ideally, in advance of the actual revocation, that's what you were saying.
 Exactly. Revocation only impacts a graphics driver's ability to receive certain commercial audio visual content. Otherwise, the revoke driver will continue to function normally.
 So your card still works. You just won't be able to watch HD DVDs.
 Now, that's huge big news because that's a really important point that I want to make sure everyone got is that Peter's paper and we all just kind of went along with it without thinking about it presumed or stated that the driver would be revoked and all of those drivers would no longer function.
 And David is saying, whoa, whoa, whoa, no. All we're doing is we're revoking the high-def capability of the driver. You can still watch non-high-def movies even and your desktop will work and everything else will work.
 So it's like when you hear it's like, oh, duh, of course, that's the way it would and should work. So it's not like no one's computers are going to work anymore. It's just that if there isn't a replacement already on your system and you are hit with revocation,
 you lose the ability to play high-def content. You don't lose anything else about your driver's ability to function, which I think is, again, a really important point to make.
 Yeah. And of course, we've said a couple of times it doesn't seem likely revocation will ever happen. However, you can't assume it's not going to. It's built in.
 You know, so you have to assume it someplace in there. There's also the issue of what if, you know, and this Peter raised now. I don't see it. Maybe we'll get to it.
 It sounds like you have to continue to pay your dues to this organization. This is whatever organizations doing this to continue to be certified. In other words, you could be revoked not because you cracked content protection,
 because you didn't pay your dues, which means if you went out of business, you could be revoked.
 But the good news is revocation, at least according to Dave, doesn't mean the thing stops working. It just means it can't play high-end content.
 And I think there's another perfect example of a nightmare scenario that's very unlikely to occur.
 Certainly the MPAA or the content provider, the AACS organization, they could revoke anyone's licenses they wanted to at any time.
 They could be surprised if somebody choosing not to renew their license would automatically force the revocation of their earlier license.
 I mean, that's, you know, okay, they had the capability to do so. I think it's a real stretch to presume that they're there, that they therefore would.
 I think somebody could just say, you know, we're going out of business. We've got, you know, a hundred thousand graphics cards out there.
 As long as those aren't breached, then I would imagine they would continue to function. The danger would be if revocation was then necessary,
 the manufacturer was out of business, Microsoft did not have the source code in order to fix the driver themselves,
 and then users of that, of those cards, of the company that went out of business,
 whose drivers were revoked for playing high-def content, they'd be in bad shape.
 You know, it may not be so academic. I think because of Musilik 64's work, it may well be that some of these keys get leaked out and revocation.
 We'll see. I mean, it's going to be just a matter of time before keys for some of these cards are leaked out.
 Explain this to me, but this is how I understand that each video card or playback mechanism has its unique key.
 And in order to use the AACS unprotected software that Musilik has written, you need the key for the card you have.
 A simplified way of describing it is as follows.
 Imagine that there's a universe of keys that will ever be used.
 And so the titles, the Titles Decryption key is encrypted with every different key possible, and it's put on the disk.
 So what happens is your player decrypts its specific matching key, which is on the disk,
 and that allows it to determine the decryption key for the title.
 But if the disk no longer contains an encrypted version of the key for the player's key, then there's no way it can decrypt the title key.
 That really didn't simplify anything.
 So everyone's confused.
 No, that makes sense. So let's talk practically.
 So in order to use Musilik 64's unencryption technique, you have to get the key for your playback device.
 Let's say somebody online starts distributing these keys.
 Now, nobody has yet, at least to my knowledge, I'm sure in some private areas they are.
 But let's say these keys start getting distributed.
 Well, at that point, wouldn't these keys get revoked?
 Yes, well, those particular disks are now forever cracked.
 That is, you can certainly imagine that there will be a cracking site that will start listing the decryption keys for all the disks that have been cracked.
 So they're giving out keys for the disk, though, not for the hardware.
 Yes, and what's called the title, it's called a title key.
 But it doesn't have to match your hardware card.
 Well, yeah, exactly.
 Then the title key would allow you to decrypt the digital content and then play it anywhere you want it.
 On any device.
 And the title keys are already leaking.
 Yes, I shouldn't have brought this up, then.
 This doesn't have anything to do with the hardware.
 Hardware revocation.
 Right.
 Well, okay, going back to revocation, he says, does this complicate the process of writing graphics drivers?
 In other words, kind of dividing the premium content playback into a separate section that can be revoked from the regular content playback, which cannot be revoked.
 Dave responds, adding new functionality usually introduces new complexity.
 In this case, additional complexity is added to the graphics driver, but that complexity comes with a direct consumer benefit of new scenarios, such as HDTVD or Blu-ray playback.
 Basically, the answer is yes.
 Yes, it's going to be more complex, but it had to be.
 It had to be.
 You're playing back new content.
 Yep.
 But it does mean that the hardware manufacturers and the driver authors are going to have to be aware of this, cognizant of this, and to keep their cards working after revocation.
 Yes.
 Good point.
 Question.
 Will the tilt bit mechanism cause problems even when the driver is not under attack from a hacker?
 For instance, there are voltage spikes.
 And this is something we really talked about with Peter.
 Voltage fluctuations are a constant in the PC hardware world.
 Wouldn't that set a tilt bit?
 Dave answers.
 It is pure speculation to say that things like voltage fluctuations might cause a driver to think it's under attack from a hacker.
 It is up to a graphics IHV manufacturer to determine what they regard as an attack, even if such an event did cause playback to stop.
 The user could just press play again and carry on watching the movie after the driver is reinitialized, which takes about a second.
 Now, remember that this check, these tilt bits are set every 30 times a second, right?
 Yes, every 30 milliseconds, there's a scan done.
 Basically, you could be pressing that space bar a lot.
 Okay.
 Again, it's important to note that this could only occur in the case of watching the highest grade premium content, such as HD DVD or Blu-ray, and practice, I doubt it would ever happen.
 Well, we don't know.
 And we're not going to know until, you know, it would be annoying if it took you three hours to get through a two-hour movie.
 You have to keep pressing the space.
 That would be a problem.
 It's time to get a new power supply.
 It seems like a card manufacturer would try to avoid that particular scenario.
 Especially now, especially now that it's had so much attention, that they're not going to have any tilt bits on their power lines.
 Right.
 But there may be other issues.
 I mean, you know, anyway, all right.
 Yeah.
 I'd love to hear what Peter said about this one, because I got the strong impression from Peter that that's the kind of thing cards have to look for, that kind of voltage modulation is one way hackers might attack these disks.
 Well, I think, frankly, I think what Peter was offended by from a purist standpoint, the idea that Windows requires maximum robustness in order to survive out in the real world anyway.
 That you're going to have all the fluctuations.
 You're plugging USB and Firewire devices in.
 You know, it's like there's just a lot going on.
 And so Windows needs every benefit of the doubt in order to be as reliable as it is.
 And so what this does is this deliberately removes every benefit of the doubt so that if there is any doubt, a tilt bit gets set and Windows resets its whole graphics display system.
 So again, we won't really know until this has been out for a while.
 And I think Peter was mostly concerned about this deal, the idea that rather than that we're switching from a benefit of the doubt to allowing no doubt whatsoever.
 Right.
 You know, what I'd really love to hear from and who could best answer these last few questions is a video card manufacturer.
 I mean, they're the ones I had to deal with this in the real world.
 And in fact, Peter quotes A.T.I. throughout his presentation talking about all of the cost which gets passed on to the consumer.
 And that was a big issue in his original white paper was that, yes, this is all more complex, no more unified drivers, no more unified hardware.
 You know, it's going to raise the cost to the consumer, especially having to do massive sorts of decryption in the hardware of the card itself now, if it's going to be a plug in card on a bus.
 Another question, does Windows Vista's use of OMAC authenticated communication, OMAC impact graphics driver performance?
 Dave answers the authentic authenticated communication mechanisms used for protected video path and Windows Vista are only actively used while commercial content is playing.
 That means that while there's a performance impact, it's limited to the scenarios where it's required to provide robust protection for commercial content.
 Just as you said, it ain't going to slow you down unless you're watching a high def movie.
 And in that case, what the heck are you doing doing anything else?
 Yep.
 And it's been given what we know now.
 It's probably going to slow you down a lot.
 But again, you know, it's going to suck up.
 It's very busy.
 It's a lot.
 It's very busy.
 It's very busy.
 I'm working here.
 Do content protection requirements mean that graphics chips have to provide hardware acceleration for video decode?
 Dave says no.
 The Windows Vista content protection requirements do not require that graphics hardware include hardware acceleration for a decode for many years.
 But such support is highly recommended to improve the user experience for HD content.
 Microsoft's trying to defend something which is really not theirs to defend.
 The answer is certainly yes.
 The more power your graphics card has, the less power you need from the rest of the system in order to do your decoding.
 But again, it's high def itself which is going to be a substantially greater burden on the system than playing a standard YouTube video in a small window which is just not going to take much of your system's power.
 So again, it's Microsoft sort of saying defending something that's really not their problem, which is just a consequence of a PC being turned into a high def media platform.
 Yeah, right.
 Again, I don't know if anybody's been asking that question, but now we know that.
 I don't think so.
 Will the video and audio content protection mechanisms affect gaming on the PC?
 This might be the question I hear most often asked.
 Dave says the Windows Vista content protection features were designed for commercial audio visual content and are typically not used in game applications.
 A game author would have to specifically request these features for them to impact game performance.
 In other words, it's turned off when you're gaming.
 Yes, you don't need it.
 Well, it's turned off anytime and always when it's not specifically needed for creating protection from the media to your eyeballs.
 And so we can assume that this won't affect gaming.
 What we don't know, and this may be, you know, patches and service packs away, is whether Vista is going to be a smooth and powerful gaming platform.
 Again, there are anecdotal reports saying that Vista is not nearly as good at this today as XP has been.
 But again, it's not even released yet.
 We don't know.
 It actually, as we do this podcast, it has not been released.
 By the time you hear this, it will have been out for a couple of days.
 It's going to be a month or two before really we know.
 And, you know, some of this might have more to do with DirectX 9 and 10.
 I mean, you know, this is a whole new platform.
 DirectX 10 changes everything.
 So, I mean, it's hard to know what to blame if things are slower or not as reliable.
 Well, I'm glad we did this, Leo.
 I'm glad we ran through these questions because, you know, there were some points that David brought up that I think, you know, did clarify some things that were big concerns from what Peter brought up.
 And, you know, it does sound like Microsoft is feeling pain and into a corner by this.
 And I think it's unfair because, you know, they had the choice of allowing Vista to be a DRM content delivery platform or not.
 On the other hand, this does make me less excited about moving to it than I would have been otherwise, although I wasn't moving to it anyway.
 Yeah, I mean, he's reassured us on a number of things that, you know, you don't have to copy protection won't affect the whole system, just the high def content playback.
 And, you know, I mean, I think that in many ways, this is reassuring.
 And frankly, you know, you always have the feeling when we're talking about this stuff that we might be kind of overreacting.
 And it's just hard to say what it's going to mean until it actually comes out and people are using it.
 Well, and if in fact, he's right about there being quality restriction and and macro vision protection and other things already in XP, it's worth noting that the XP doesn't seem to be giving anyone a lot of trouble.
 Certainly, though, it's not the case that XP has anything like this massive redesign, which has been perpetrated for the purpose of allowing ACS, you know, essentially policy to be pushed through all the way to the end user.
 Right.
 We'll just have to wait and see. We'll find out. I mean, it's certainly a worthwhile discussion. It's fascinating discussion. And you can imagine, I mean, over the last two or three years that there's been a lot of talk back and forth between Microsoft and Hollywood
 and vendors, these IHVs, you know, this is not an easy thing to implement.
 Steve, it's not an easy thing to explain. You do a great job. I thank you so much. We thank our sponsors. The star owe security gateway folks for providing us with the support to make the wherewithal to make this podcast a reality. We couldn't do it without them.
 If you are looking for a superior protection from spam from viruses from hackers, complete VPN capabilities, intrusion protection, content filtering, and industrial strength firewall and now new encryption capabilities as well, all in a single easy to use high performance appliance.
 You need the star security gateway. I've got a 120 right here and I just love it. It's great for smaller, medium business call star for a free trial in your business of the star security gateway appliance.
 It's A.S.T.A.R.O. calm or call 877 the number four A.S.T.A.R.O. And if you're non commercial, if you're non business, you know, you can download this software. It's open source. Use it. You can even I think it's something like 79 euros a year. Subscribe to the other features and get all the benefits. It's just a remarkable product A.S.T.A.R.O.com. Thanks so much for supporting security now.
 You could find more about this, including a transcript of both of Dave's questions and answers and of Steve's responses on Steve's website grc.com.
 Elaine does transcripts for us. We have 16 kilobit versions. For those of you who don't want to download the big file and comments. And that's where you can ask questions of Steve for our Q&A segments.
 And of course, where you can find shields up, secureable, shoot the messenger, de-combobulator and all of his great security programs and the best disk recovery and maintenance utility ever written, ever will be written, spin right, S-P-I-N-R-I-T-E.
 Read some great testimonials at spin right dot info. You have very, you are beloved by your customers. That's kind of must be a nice feeling.
 I think what I like about it is that anyone who's publishing software is saying, "Arges is the best this or the best that." And there's nothing better, I think, and more true and persuasive than actual users reporting how they were able to use the product.
 So in our case, in Spin Right's case, since it is, it's not just giving them larger fonts or changing the clarity of their resolution or whatever it's doing. It's like really coming to their rescue and aid all the time. It makes for some really great reading.
 It's just great. I am so glad that you wrote Spin Right. I've used it and it's saved my bacon many times. And I hope others will check it out at grc.com. We're going to be back next week for yet another thrilling gripping edition. We're actually going to talk about data execution prevention next week.
 Right. I still believe, I continue to believe there is probably no single more important thing people could use than preventing buffer overflows since, I mean, we're talking about all the time. The security industry is talking about all the time.
 This is the way remote hackers are able to send something into someone's computer and essentially find a vulnerability to exploit and run their own code with service pack two of XP and ever since.
 And of course, in VISTA as well, there is this data execution prevention support, which requires hardware to be able in order to essentially turn this on. The reason I wrote "Secureable" was to let people know if they had depth support in their hardware as anyone who's purchased a processor for about the last two years will.
 Although, unfortunately, Microsoft has it defaulted to off, in most cases. There were a compatibility, of course. Exactly, for backward compatibility. So, you know, they don't want to suddenly have windows not working.
 But unfortunately, what it really means is that Windows is much less secure than it could be. Next week, we're going to talk about that some more and go over it in a little more detail.
 Great. That should be fun. We'll see you next week. I'm Leo LaPorte for Steve Gibson. Thanks for joining us. We'll be back next Thursday for another Security Now.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
