 This is Twit!
 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by AOL Radio at AOL.com/podcasting.
 This is Security Now with Steve Gibson, Episode 73 for January 3, 2007, the next generation
 of copy protection.
 Security Now is brought to you by Astaro, makers of the Astaro Security Gateway, on the web
 at www.astaro.com.
 Welcome to 2007, the great news is in 2007, there are no more security issues, there are
 no more security problems, we don't have to worry about hacking, we don't have to worry
 about viruses or spires, so Steve, we can stop doing this show.
 So this is our last episode, because they fixed it all, right?
 No more problems.
 No more problems.
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh.
 Oh, how far from the truth that is, why it's a brand-new era of spyware, viruses, hacks,
 exploitation, encryption, and of course, as always, as we've been doing since 2005, is
 that right?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 We will be covering the ins and outs, Steve Gibson from grc.com.
 Hello, Steve.
 Hey, Leo, great to be back, our first episode of the New Year, and just so everyone knows
 we're kidding about, you know, there being no more security now.
 If you think anybody believed it, I don't think so.
 I can see it on dig though, I should really learn, you've got to be very careful what
 you say these days, because it's taken out of context, it gets on dig, and it gets a
 life of its own.
 Oh, it's true.
 You mentioned once.
 I think you were, you know, I don't know if you were just tired or, yeah, that's right
 for Twitter.
 Just sort of, you just sort of say, I was going to kill it.
 I just said, I'm having trouble and it was a fire store.
 I still hear from people.
 My father-in-law said, Hey, my friend told me that you're canceling to it yesterday.
 He said this.
 He said, I don't think so.
 In fact, I'm very pleased to say that Twit was named one of the top 10 podcasts of the
 year from Time Magazine.
 Time Magazine.
 Time Magazine.
 Pretty high honor.
 We're up there with all the biggies.
 Mainstream media.
 Yeah, and most of it is Mainstream Media, Wall Street Journal and, you know, all things
 or I guess this American life, which is my favorite radio show.
 Anyway, enough of that, let's, and I consider by the way that that's the Twit Network more
 than just any one podcast, because really Twit is made up of so many pieces.
 We're going to talk today about something that is really new in 2007, a new form of
 digital rights management.
 Well, yeah.
 What happened was essentially over the holidays, there became a great deal of attention focused
 on a paper written by a guy named Peter Gutman, who is a well-known security researcher.
 In fact, it's funny when he and I were corresponding.
 His email was going into a different folder, and I thought, okay, I know I just got email,
 where did it go?
 Well, I had a folder from a dialogue I had had with Peter and one of his coworkers back
 in 2002 regarding a free cryptographic library that they were making available, an open source
 cryptographic library, and back then I was talking to him about making use of some of
 the functions and wanting to get his permission to do so.
 So I've had a dialogue going back with Peter for years, five years, and what happened
 was he wrote a really interesting paper which I was reading on the plane heading to Northern
 California for Christmas, actually it was on December 24th.
 By the time we got to the second page of this thing, I mean, it had me in its grip.
 It was fantastic.
 It's titled, basically I don't remember the exact title, but it talks about the effective
 costs of the new digital rights management technology which Microsoft has put into Vista.
 And this is something that we've never talked about before.
 Peter has a very progressive open source free speech sort of take on this, but I mean, it
 was really interesting.
 So it got me focused on this issue of, wait a minute, I mean, you know, you and I deal
 with media a lot, Leo, DRM is an issue, we've glanced on issues of digital rights management
 of the digital Millennium Copyright Act, DMCA, and so forth, but have never really focused
 on it.
 I decided though that, you know, Vista is, I wanted to, I wanted to do an episode responding
 and talking not only about Peter's paper, but with Peter.
 So he's going to join us in next week's episode about Vista and DRM to talk about the things
 he said and also I think it'd be fascinating to hear about the reactions to his paper in
 the email that he and I have had in our correspondence.
 I mean, he's just been in a firestorm.
 Many bloggers have jumped on, on the things he said, saying that he's wrong, Bob Cringley
 of, remember old, the old info world guy, Cringley basically didn't agree with some
 of the things he said.
 So anyway, it sent me into a research mode for most of the last week and to, well, to
 understand what this AACS content protection system is, I wanted to understand the technology
 of it and basically to do a fact check of what Peter wrote and also to be able to bring
 sort of a comprehensive view of what this means to our listeners.
 So we'll set that up this week and then next week we'll talk with Peter having a kind of
 a foundation for understanding what he's talking about.
 Well, yes, and in fact, you know, the reason I want to talk about this, first of all, I
 think it will be interesting to all of our listeners and although, you know, technically
 we're about security, well, no base of listeners more than ours has the foundation to understand
 this stuff because this is all about crypto and the technologies that we've been talking
 about as you said since 2005.
 Well, I think DRM falls within our purview, absolutely.
 Hey, before we get started on understanding AACS, what it is and what it's going to mean
 going forward.
 Let me just mention, as always, that this podcast starts a brand new year with a Staro.
 They've sponsored us most of last year and they've decided to come back for all of 2007.
 We're really thrilled.
 It's a good match for us.
 The Staro makes the Staro security gateway.
 Now, if you're a small or a medium business and you're looking for superior protection
 from spam, from viruses, from hackers, you get a complete VPN, you get intrusion protection,
 you get content filtering and an industrial strength firewall all in a box, a little affordable
 high performance appliance.
 It's really neat.
 You can contact a Staro to get a free trial, ASTARO.com or call 8774 ASTARO 877 the number
 4 ASTARO.
 You can schedule a free trial of a Staro security gateway appliance in your business and home
 users and non-commercial users can download the software from ASG for home use for free,
 which is pretty neat.
 It's open source and very, very powerful.
 A Staro corporation, ASTARO.com, we thank them for their support.
 So, AAC, what does that stand for?
 Well, it stands for Advanced Access, this has been an acronym soup week for me also, Advanced
 Access Content System is what it stands for.
 Is it a replacement for CSS?
 Well, it's sort of a replacement, right.
 A sort of replacement for CSS, although really it's an evolution forward.
 That's one of the things that I learned during this research is that this is not a completely
 brand new system.
 There's been a constant evolution in content protection ever since the beginning of digital
 tape stuff happened.
 You may remember that the audio industry, the recording industry, just had a spasm when
 it was back in 1987 that tape was introduced because here was going to be a consumer digital
 audio tape recording format that would potentially allow consumers to make perfect copies of
 recordings.
 And so, when we moved into this digital era from the older analog era, things that were
 already sort of set up to be a problem for the content producers got a lot worse because
 now there was not this notion of a recording of a recording of a recording, you may remember
 in elementary school when we had cassette tape recorders, you know, people were, you
 know, kids would get two cassette tape recorders, hook their connections together, set one
 to play and the other to record, remember those old days, Leo, and you'd make a copy
 of some--
 And then we'd give him his ear and his ear with each copy.
 Exactly.
 And so, you know, so yes, that was a violation of copyrights.
 And so, you know, even back away--
 I mean, Luke Hocha wasn't there, I think there was the Home Recording Act, which allowed
 you to do that.
 Well, actually, that didn't come until after that tape.
 It was like four years later, it was in 1992, actually it was in response to the problem
 of that tape, that the Home Recording Act was created, and basically what it did was
 it required it by law ordered all digital audio recorders to be equipped with serial
 copy management system, something called SCMS.
 And the reason that that happened was, well, first of all, what SCMS was, was it allowed
 you to make a first-- a one first generation copy, but the copy could not be copied.
 And the reason that happened was that even later, back in '72, the recording industry
 was worried about consumer tape recorders, as we were talking about, and wanted to tighten
 up the regulations.
 But due to the sort of the historical nature of copyrights, the Congress was concerned
 about just banning all copying.
 So they put in what was called a fair use exemption, which allowed individual citizens and for
 academic-- like for personal use and for academic use, to make copies.
 So the idea being that those would not be causing economic harm on the content producers.
 So essentially, what's been going on is, over time, this notion of who owns the material
 really has evolved, the original copyright provision, back in 1788 of the Constitution,
 it allowed for 28-year protection on books, maps, and charts, and basically it stood that
 way for about a century after which time that 28 years was doubled to 56 years, and the notion
 of printing, which is what they were talking about then, turned into copying because we
 were beginning to have phonographs and player piano remember sheet-roll music stuff.
 What's happened is, well, the idea was that the overall goal was that the public interest
 was going to be served, that is, the formal law says that what's good for the public is
 what we want.
 So the idea was that allowing anyone to copy anything was not good for the public because
 it would-- that would disincentivize content producers.
 So the idea was let's give content producers some length of time in order to have exclusive
 rights after which the content will revert to the public domain.
 And of course, that's very much like the patent system that we still have today where you
 file a patent that publicly discloses your invention.
 So for example, it's no longer a trade secret.
 It will be made public, but in doing so, you're guaranteed 17 years of exclusivity to that
 invention in return for making it public.
 The idea being that that allows other people to build off of your invention during that
 time, although they have to pay licensing rights and royalties to you if they use it.
 So originally, copyright was a very similar sort of thing, but what's happened over time
 and really, unfortunately, it looks like it's a direct consequence of the increasing lobbying
 strength of the content producing industry they've been lobbying for and succeeding
 and getting increasingly strong legislation from Congress to create laws which are making
 this basically tightening down on individual users' rights.
 Now the flip side of that is look how the world has changed in, for example, the last
 30 years where back in elementary school, kids were plugging two tape recorders together.
 Now we have hard drives, gigabytes of storage, we have the internet, we have fantastic communications
 technologies.
 All of these things, of course, work to make the proliferation of copyrighted material
 far easier.
 So those people who are trying to say, wait, we need greater protections today because
 the world is nothing like it was envisioned back when these original laws were created.
 I mean, you could argue that they've got a good point.
 So essentially, over the years, the legislation has tightened up until, of course, we finally
 got to the World Intellectual Property Organization, the WIPO treaties, and of course, when we
 signed those treaties, we had to have a law to basically a law on our books to make legal
 what the treaties were saying.
 And that's where we got this DMCA, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, which basically
 criminalizes and makes much greater the fines involved with basically touching in any way
 content which has ever been encrypted.
 And so essentially, technically, there's still this fair use provision in the law, but it's
 gone for encrypted content.
 I mean, look at CDs.
 Now CDs are non-encrypted and nobody thinks twice about ripping a CD and sticking it
 in your MP3 player for your own personal use, and fair use law allows that to be done.
 You're certainly not supposed to copy the CDs and hand out perfect digital copies to
 your friends, but unfortunately, for the content producers, it's entirely possible to do that
 because the CD technology was never produced with any encryption.
 That is, there's nothing there to prevent that from happening.
 So the way the laws have come down is, okay, the DMCA criminalizes the circumvention, even
 the exploration actually of circumvention, into any technology used to thwart copying.
 So DVDs, even original first-generation DVDs that are being protected by the very broken
 CSFs, the content scrambling system, DVDs cannot legally be ripped and decrypted at all because
 doing so violates the DMCA since you are having to defeat content protection which is on the
 DVD, which is not the case over on the CD side.
 So essentially, what's happened is, over time, the world has changed, computers are becoming
 powerful, and from the standpoint of content producers, the creation of the PC is the worst
 thing that ever happened, that these are like little piracy studios that have dropped in
 price that you can buy for $500 that all have DVD ROM burners in them now.
 So you can stick DVDs in with the proper software, you're able to rip them, decrypt them and
 burn copies.
 I mean, this has been a nightmare for content producers, and while they have succeeded in
 lobbying strongly and passing laws to increase the length of their ownership of properties
 and to basically make increasingly onerous the threat of breaking these rules, they recognize
 that laws are one thing, but preventing the copying is what they have to do if it's not
 going to happen.
 I mean, look at file sharing.
 I mean, it's funny, I was talking to Mark Thompson, the analog X about this, and I'm
 not that much into the industry.
 He's got a friend who is a song author who, and in response to my question of Mark, has
 file sharing, peer to peer file sharing and music trading really hurt the industry.
 And he said without a question, he said he's got a friend who's been watching his royalties
 dropping year by year, and I mean that because people no longer need to purchase CDs from
 the store, they can get pretty much anything they want for free in the CD area.
 So, what's happened is sort of quietly and behind the scenes, there has been a continuous
 march of technology moving forward that, you know, you mentioned CSS, CSS is the content
 scrambling system which was put on to DVDs from the beginning.
 It had a number of problems.
 One is that due to the export restrictions, which we had at the time, you may remember
 that export restrictions classified cryptography as munitions.
 And so it was illegal to export anything protected by a key longer than 40 bits.
 So that directly impacted the design, some would say thankfully, those who like the freedom
 of doing with DVD media what they want to, it impacted the design of DVD cryptography
 limiting it to 40 bits.
 Also back then, the available processing power in players was far lower, so you could argue
 that players wouldn't have been able to really manage much heavier crypto anyway.
 So CSS uses a 40-bit key and analysis is analyses of it have shown that only 25%, I'm
 sorry, 25 bits of the 40 turned out to be mathematically significant.
 This is terrible.
 Yes.
 Well, it's very reminiscent, remember, of the 40-bit web in WP encryption that, you know,
 it's like, oh, 40 bits is a lot and it turned out that weaknesses in the encryption caused
 it to have real problems as we've, you know, covered in the past talking about Wi-Fi stuff.
 So bottom line is that CSS was protection against casual copying, but it allowed the
 technology to be cracked and to the point now, where people who want to copy commercial DVDs
 are pretty much able to do so.
 So naturally, the MPAA, the Motion Picture Association, was not happy about the fact
 that this protection on DVDs was cracked so badly.
 And on the other hand, the DMCA absolutely guarantees that since it was encrypted, their
 intent to protect it is in place.
 Now the problem is it really does block fair use because individuals, by law, should be
 able, were not for this DMCA ban on copying anything that is encrypted, individuals should
 be able to copy for their own use.
 And one of the things that I found really interesting, you may remember this as a report
 that came out maybe about a year ago, and that is that pressed CDs and DVDs are not nearly
 as archival as was believed.
 It turns out that there's an oxidization problem that occurs over time.
 And so our large collections of CDs and DVDs are degrading and have a lifetime that some
 have measured of maybe 10, maybe 15 years, but not 100.
 Whereas it turns out that recordable technology, because it doesn't use the same materials
 at all, CDR and DVD-R material, has much longer archival shelf storage life.
 So I have a huge collection of DVDs, commercial purchase DVDs and CDs, and I buy them because
 I love movies and I would like to be able to watch these in 30 years.
 So basically the fact that I'm unable to make personal use copies is a problem that can
 cause them to, basically, for me to lose the value that I had in buying something that I
 thought was going to last forever.
 Turns out we don't have that freedom anymore to do so legally.
 So over time, there's been a series of evolutions in CSS.
 Formally, there's something called CSS2 that never really existed, but there was something
 called CPPM, which is the content protection for pre-recorded media.
 That is what protects DVD audio discs, which I have a few of those, although they never
 really got off the ground.
 The idea being that you could take the incredible, never compressed 7.1 surround sound, basically
 make a very high resolution, stunning sounding multi-channel recording, which you cannot deliver
 on a CD because it doesn't have the data rate or the capacity, but you could deliver it on
 a DVD.
 When there was CPRM, which got a lot more press, it covers, it stands for content protection
 for recordable media, and it got a lot of attention because the spec when it came out
 included hard drives, regular ATA hard drives, and people in the industry went nuts because
 it looked like if this were implemented in hard drives, then we could start having hard
 drive content locked, and the CPPM and the CPRM give you protection on a sector by sector
 basis.
 The idea would be that we could have arbitrary blocks of sectors locked and encrypted inside
 the drive in a way that would prevent us literally from backing them up.
 There was such a fury that resulted from that that the body that licenses CPRM promised,
 they vowed never to license any hard drives to incorporate this technology.
 It's worth mentioning now that at this point that all of this technology is available only
 under license, it's all protected by intellectual property rights, both patents and trade secrets.
 Sometimes you can find more information by looking at patents that have been issued to
 these various companies, but a lot of this stuff is kept also trade secret, where only
 if you're a licensor, do you get the specific crypto algorithms that these things are using?
 Not to mention, have keys that are issued to your devices that allow them to participate
 in these systems.
 So, sort of quietly in the background, this technology has been evolving.
 There's also something called DTCP, which is digital transmission content protection,
 which protects firewire, the 1394 interface and USB connections when protected content
 is passing over those serial buses.
 This DTCP comes into effect, and it also has this notion of serial copy protection.
 There's two bits in there that can say you can copy this freely, you can never copy this,
 you can copy it once, or you can copy it no more.
 So those are the four combinations that two bits gives you that allows you to govern or
 allows the content producers to completely control what rights you have to use this technology.
 And then finally, there's something called HDCP, which is actually it's an intellectual
 property of Intel's, it's high bandwidth digital content protection, and that's what
 current generation TV, consumer TVs, and home theater projectors are using among other applications,
 but primarily that the idea being that our content producers have really been extending
 their reach so that they're protecting the entire channel all the way from the disk,
 which is heavily encrypted through the player, and then even the player's outputs from the
 player to the screen, there are policies which are bound into the content, which allow the
 content providers to declare whether, for example, they will allow their content to be
 played over component connections for years, the predecessor to HDCP connections, this
 digital link to consumer display devices was a component video, so-called RGB video that
 many existing home theater systems use.
 The problem is it is not a digital technology, it is not digitally protectable, and so although
 it isn't being done yet, and no one knows if or when it will be done, anything that is
 able to deliver this content is able to literally shut down your component video outputs, and
 in some cases deliberately degrade the resolution coming through if that's what the content
 owner requests, so they can control whether you get it at all, whether you literally get
 a fuzzy picture or whether you get the full resolution that the spec is able to provide.
 It's just phenomenal how much of this has sort of been creeping along without us really
 paying much attention to it.
 It seems like they've always wanted the ability to kind of reach into your computer and change
 how it behaves, or even attract stuff if they could.
 Well, so no, that leads us to AACS, AACS, even better, oh boy, wait till you hear about
 this.
 So AACS will be used on what?
 AACS is sort of the end result so far of this constant march towards the content providers
 obtaining more technological grip on what users can actually do.
 With the DMCA, they got legal grip.
 I mean, the DMCA has serious teeth in it.
 I mean, many, you know, the EFF and many free speech activist organizations are very unhappy
 with it because they really feel that it goes too far.
 I mean, one of the things that has always strengthened our technologies is having them
 open and unable to be examined and discussed within academia.
 So the DMCA prevents that.
 I mean, you see people saying, "I can't talk about this because it would be a violation
 of the DMCA."
 So I mean, it really does go against free speech rights in many ways.
 Like extending itself way beyond just the protection of content, it's protecting anyone
 talking about the protection of content.
 So it's a problem.
 So AACS is the new system which is part of every next generation DVD that is the so-called
 high-definition DVD formats, both HD DVD and the Blu-ray DVD.
 Oh, so they both use the same method.
 They don't have their own methods.
 Yes.
 They use the same.
 All of this comes from a very powerful licensing body.
 Blu-ray has one step more of encryption, which is one of the things that Sony is trying to
 sell the content industry in believing because Blu-ray, well, first of all, it is due to
 the fact that it's a format which is not compatible with existing DVD production.
 Whereas HD DVD, you're able to retool your DVD production line in order to produce HD
 DVDs.
 Blu-ray requires brand new equipment from scratch.
 I mean, you just got to create a completely new production facility.
 In return for that, you do get more storage.
 I believe I'm not quite sure on the least significant digit, but it's like 50 or 56 gigs
 of storage on a Blu-ray DVD where HD is 40.
 On the other hand, they're also using the latest technology, the H.264, the so-called
 AVC MPEG-4 codec, which is the generation beyond MPEG-2, which is the compression used
 for DVD content that allows them to basically get higher levels of compression.
 Also H.264 deals with much higher resolution images in a good way than MPEG-2 was ever
 designed to, basically MPEG-2, like 720 by 480, which is the native resolution stored
 on DVDs, whereas H.264 can handle the highest current resolution and potentially beyond,
 which is 1920 by 1080 at the far extreme end of HD.
 So anyway, as I was saying, what Blu-ray offers beyond HD is it can actually contain
 a replacement copy protection scheme if the AACS scheme were ever to be badly broken.
 And by the way, what most security and cyber experts told them to do, they said, there's
 no such thing as the uncrackable system, you've got to have backups.
 Well, yes.
 Now Leo, you and I have said, and this is one of my mantras on security now, is it is
 not possible to do this, that it is not possible to prevent a, it's not possible to make a
 system like this work perfectly, and again, as we define security, security has to be
 perfect because the nature of breaching security is, for example, the weakest link problem.
 All you need is one weak link somewhere and you are able to hack the system.
 Speaking of which, over the holidays, there was a great deal of news caused by somebody
 who posted, I don't remember if it was the Doom 9 forums where he first posted, I don't
 think.
 Yeah, it's on Doom 9, yeah.
 I know it's there, I don't know if that's where he first posted, someone going by the
 handle of Musilix 64 announced an HD DVD backup tool for which he provided the full source
 code and on YouTube is a video demonstrating that he has cracked HD DVD content protection,
 that is this latest generation AACS content control system.
 What he apparently did was he was using a version of Windows and we don't know which
 player but it may have been version 6.5 of power DVD player which is able to play protected
 HD DVD content.
 He went into the software at some phase of its operation and grabbed the keys, he grabbed
 the decryption keys and then independently decrypted the contents of the drive which are
 just files stored in the standard DVD file format, the UDF format.
 He took the files and did his own decryption.
 Now it's interesting that he posts this in Java because in some of the AACS specs is their
 samples of this technology is in Java.
 So my guess is that he read the specs, took the sample code which you know these guys,
 the AACS guys made available basically took the decryption keys out of the power DVD player
 and applied them himself to decrypt the files and this YouTube video apparently shows him
 playing one of these files that he independently decrypted and he's playing it outside of the
 normal protection wrapper.
 Well what he did was not to break AACS at all.
 What he did was he captured a deep intermediate result.
 This AACS technology is phenomenal.
 It involves multiple parties, there's sort of a licensing entity which issues device
 keys to devices which are licensed to play this content.
 They also issue media keys to a licensed media replicator and something called an MKB which
 is this media key block.
 The technology is literally it's light years beyond CSS and the media key block uses a
 very clever system which has been created recently which forms what's called broadcast
 encryption using something called a subset difference revocation or SDR.
 If anyone listening wants to really hurt themselves put subset difference revocation into Google
 and then try to understand this stuff.
 I mean it is this amazing tree of cryptographic keys and the idea is that it's used for any
 time you want to broadcast, you want to control the broadcast of encrypted content and you
 want the ability to revoke certain keys of receivers of the broadcast but you want to
 minimize the overhead of basically sending all of the revoked keys.
 The idea being that the vast majority of receivers of the broadcast will be licensed
 and non-revoked so most of the keys are going to be valid but some of them need to be revoked.
 But maybe even a bunch we're talking about huge numbers if a key is revoked the player
 stops working.
 Yes if the key is revoked.
 So it's a way of kind of if somebody figures out a way to crack it you just revoke the
 key.
 Actually it's more than that if it's not that the player stops working what this thing does
 is this bizarre broadcast encryption is a way of sending out all of the keys and preventing
 the revoked receivers from being able to use this technology to obtain their own key.
 So but anyway bottom line is it's it's I can't even follow this meta discussion.
 I know it is just I mean I've read the thing about three times I'm kind of beginning to
 get a handle on it.
 Let me understand.
 The idea of key revocation is that you can no longer play back this content right.
 That's exactly right.
 So here's the here's the AACS technology and the content protection industry that is I
 mean they're they are determined not to make this the same mistake they made with DVDs.
 I mean they're there that believe me they just gone overboard with this.
 So so discs discs are licensed content is licensed.
 There are drive certificates and host certificates there's this media key block which contains
 this insane subset difference revocation broadcast encryption difference tree technology that
 allows them it's not only that they're they're they're revoking the key but because you could
 imagine that some device would would that for example had been compromised would would
 you know use somebody else's keys anyway the way this works cryptographically is you
 are unable to decrypt the content if this if this media key block is set up in a way
 that you're unable to so so get this Leo next generation players are so burdened down
 with this crypto.
 I mean this stuff first of all no more this forty bit cipher nonsense.
 This is AES 128 that's the Rhine doll encryption that happened remember a few years back that
 we've talked about a AES is our state of the art crypto it's 128 bit AES throughout the
 entire technology they use sort of a a AES building blocks to do hashes and and for for
 signing and other stuff they also use full on public key crypto they use elliptic curve
 cryptography to him as the means for using a Diffie Hellman public key key exchange between
 the devices but this this stuff is so loaded down now that when you insert a high definition
 DVD into first generation players it takes the player more than a full minute to register
 the arrival of the disk because the players sitting here trying to untangle all of this
 stuff.
 It's I mean it's literally you know we don't have super strong processors in these little
 consumer players you know you want to buy it at fries or circuit city or wherever for
 a reason price they're trying to get the cost down certainly we've got much stronger computation
 today than we did thirty years ago but but still 10 minutes of sorry 10 minutes 10 oh
 a full minute just for the player to go through all this work now the player also has non-volatile
 memory and this media key block is is serialized so so imagine that somewhere somebody hacked
 a player that you owned and the content industry was tracking this and realized that this player
 had been compromised and they wanted to prevent any additional media from leaking out through
 the player they're able to revoke essentially remotely revoke the certificate and and and
 crypto capability from that from this from from that player or all players of that family
 and it's not clear what level of granularity there will be whether for example a a a certain
 model of player will have all the same keys or whether they'll they'll be produced in
 batches it's just it's up to the the the license or to decide you know how granular they want
 to make their license apparently and again one of the problems we have is it even the
 contracts and the terms of these things are bound up in proprietary license agreements
 there there's talk of other remedies which sounds sort of onerous against people who
 allow their their players or their keys to become exposed so it's not only that they
 would be subject to revocation of of of those assets but also you know other measures unquote
 and nobody knows what those are so come knocking on your door that's so pressure so when you
 insert a new hd dvd in into an hdvd player it goes through all this crypto between literally
 between the drive in the player and the player even the bus between the drive and the the
 player's motherboard is dynamically encrypted and there there is public key exchange happening
 between the device and the player in inside to prevent somebody from from sniffing the
 interconnection between the hd dvd you know the physical optical reader and the motherboard
 this thing is I mean just locked down well they didn't want to repeat of the DCSS well
 yeah they really didn't want this to be cracked like I said it's like it's it's sort of it's
 sort of like well now we're paying for what what happened after css was cracked is that
 now we've just gone technology heavy well once we may not pay if people decide not that
 they that's too onerous and don't want to don't want to do it well um get this when when all
 of this this public key crypto and an interlock has been established between the optical player
 and inside of your own dvd player then the media key block which is that this container
 of this amazing broadcast encryption subset difference revocation tree technology it's
 serialized the player checks the serial number of the one it has and after verifying the
 signature on this to prevent spoofing if the the disk you've inserted contains a newer
 version of the official media key block your player will update its copy on the fly to
 the latest one that's how revocation is pushed out through the system so if you were unlucky
 enough to have the same player that somebody else had that had been cracked and was known
 to be cracked playing a later a new a new a newer release of an HD dvd could render the
 player inert it would shut down and no and no longer be willing to play now in fairness
 it's not clear whether this would ever be used against a mass produced yeah product
 because you'd be putting a lot I mean I'd be pretty annoyed if this thousand dollar or
 five hundred dollar player I bought stopped working well I think it's more than annoyance
 I think you'd end up with class action lawsuits you know big big big because suddenly it's
 you know a five hundred dollar expensive piece of consumer electronics had been deliberately
 neutered I'm not surprised to hear it though because this is where all this stuff has been
 headed as I said at the very beginning these companies want to reach out and get stuff off
 your drive or even hurt you for pirating they really want to be able to reach into your
 computer now unfortunately the one of the as always with security there's we're back
 to the weakest link issue and that is this HDCP is is the high bandwidth digital content
 protection created by Intel it's a you know this is the way it's the so-called the last
 mile it's the link between your HD DVD player and the screen that you got for Christmas you
 know last week it'll probably have HDMI connections anything with an HDMI connector is certainly
 any consumer product will have HDCP protection meaning that it's carrying it's carrying license
 keys and they are revocable so just as just as a ACS has revocation it's funny too because
 the the euphemism for this in the industry is renew ability they want they want that their
 their protection system their content protection system to have the characteristic of renewability
 meaning that you know it's able to adapt to to breaches that that are learned anyway the
 point is that HDCP turns out not to be very strong it is really the weak link so after
 going through all of this phenomenal technology to bring the content to you that it turns out
 that there are known weaknesses which have been published and talked about but once again
 the DMCA has put a real Paul on any ability to get specific about this as we once would
 have been because you're a criminal you can't even talk about if you do exactly if you if
 you lead to this so it turns out though that it looks like this is the weak link and it's
 the digital link so you could imagine that some determined pirates would come up with
 a crack for HDCP use an uncracked player and simply do a digital capture of the decompressed
 image back into digital form recompress it and remaster it and I mean and I've got to
 ask myself who is it that the content providers are trying to prohibit I mean we know there
 will be pirated mass produced HD DVDs in other places I have a friend who lives in the Philippines
 who who was visiting for the holidays and I was talking about this stuff and he's like
 what are you talking about he says I walked down the street in the Philippines and there
 are just racks of of Hollywood movies selling for a couple dollar that's the problem I mean
 that those are the real pirates exactly you know that kind of piracy and and I there's
 just no way that this is possible what what Peter says and we'll talk to him about this
 next week Peter describes it as as requiring the laws of physics to be revoked and which
 is sort of his poetic way of saying what I have always been saying is that you cannot
 do this I mean it's not possible to to protect because the devices that we have under our
 control do have the ability to decrypt the content and present it otherwise they would
 be useless and if there isn't perfect control all the way literally to our retinas then
 there are ways to get around this right so I mean it's always going to be a whole it's
 fascinating technology this is I thought people would find it interesting as I have over the
 last week as I brought myself up to speed on on some of these acronyms and details you
 know just how far the content protection industry has gone that the fact that it now you got
 to wait a minute when you stick your your disc into a player I have heard that the second
 generation players are considered very quick because it now only takes about 15 seconds
 yeah I haven't they have to say on my Xbox 360 I don't notice particularly that it's slow
 although there were a lot of complaints early on how slow these HD DVD and Blu-ray particularly
 players were well and and now we understand what it's doing I mean it's literally it I
 mean so they just put faster processors in basically yeah yes it is a sophisticated crypto
 system which is sitting in little HD DVD players to perform you know public key crypto on the
 wire linking literally linking the optical drive to the motherboard amazing because they
 just don't want to have any exposed paths that would allow people to extract this but
 again Leo I mean you know I'm I've never been a file sharing guy I'm proud to say that that
 I mean I have a vast DVD and CD collection I mean I appreciate the freedom of being able
 to do what I wish with content that I own I don't have any pirated content here at all
 I mean I buy things easily but I like being able to convert things to mp3 players or to
 watch TV or movies on my little my little palm handheld I mean it's convenient for me so it
 certainly falls within fair use but basically as a consequence of the power of our digital
 technology the content providers have decided the greater the barrier they can they can
 build to to limit that the better and and in fairness you have to have to agree that there
 are probably people who duplicate commercial DVDs and give them to friends well it's there
 I guess it's the movie company's right to do this what's going to I guess the real question
 is will consumers put up with it and will they maybe not buy HD DVD players or Blu-ray
 players because of this will they maybe stay away from Vista this is what we're going to
 talk about next time because of all the owners copy protection and stuff put into it and
 I have a feeling as consumers learn about this they might have some to say about it you
 know I don't think it's going to matter frankly I think what we're seeing what what what I
 mean sadly what we're seeing is we're seeing the end of an era or as the content producers
 would say an error in in the delivery this meeting now certainly DVDs will not go away
 what we'll see is we will see HD DVDs and DVDs of the same movies as we do now being released
 and in fact I just because I wanted to start really like seeing the HD DVD difference I
 bought the mission of possible three set and and of course Tomb Raider the first one because
 you know what's not to like about Laura Croft and I feel you know Angela Jolie and in high
 death has got to be a good thing because I want to begin to to experience what consumers
 are going to be seeing I have to say I love it I mean I I've been watching I watched King
 Kong and the seabiscuit and they just look fantastic they look I think it seems on a
 good good big plasma screen it seems better than the movie theater I see more detail maybe
 just got closer I mean just really looks great well I think probably the the exactly if it's
 the certainly there can't actually be more detail than for example on a film but the fact
 that that the that you're closer to the screen means you end up seeing you know you have a
 larger frame occupying a larger percentage of your retina and so in terms of the resolution
 of your eye with the screen being close enough now there are enough pixels that that matches
 pretty well really you actually end up seeing a lot more you know my feeling is I mean first
 of all when I squeeze some something that my TV has captured from TV down to 480 by 320
 you know it's it's it's certainly lower resolution than the the media content providers are worried
 about protecting for example there has been some some issues about for example this notion
 of constricting resolution which is what we're going to be talking about next week which
 is part of the solution which which some players are offering media providers saying look rather
 than disabling non-incryptable outputs how about if you reduce the resolution well that's
 going to annoy people who have who have analog outputs like component component video that
 are specifically you know that that that they that they got because they wanted to do HD content
 and then have the delivery system deliberately make it fuzzy which is what apparently is
 going to be possible right but but so so I have to ask myself I think you know most people
 want to buy DVDs and watch them certainly there are people who who are unwilling to do that
 who you're saying the people who would care are in the minority well and the and the movies
 will still always be available on DVD I don't think we're going to see DVDs die anytime soon
 and they are I mean they've been cracked a long time ago you know by you know by as you
 said originally by DECSS and now there are you know lots of of of almost you know push
 and click sort of solutions for that so but they were never easy enough that a lot of
 people did it so I think you're right I think it's a thin layer of people that care about
 this stuff and most people are just going to be cows and just say okay we'll take it
 and Leo what are you going to do with forty gigs of crack of cracked data I mean so you
 decrypted it and it's forty gigs I mean even on content yeah I mean it's much nicer to have
 it there just keep a little DVD yeah exactly how have it sitting on a little disk in the
 album I guess what I was was thinking about is more with windows and operating systems
 if operating system seem become encumbered with this you know craft people we knew what
 you know what word you are going to use people are going to viscerally respond they may not
 say oh shoot I can't copy a DVD but they may say boy I don't really like this operating
 system I'm not sure why yes this is a perfect segue into our next episode because I wanted
 to create this foundation for for next week when we talk to Peter about his paper I'm
 going to put a link in and I'm sure you will to a link to Peter's paper he was evolving
 it rapidly over the first week or two the last time the last copy I got was December
 28th and I looked yesterday and it was still December 28th so I think it sort of settled
 down for him in our correspondence he was saying that he's just been you know buried
 under email and responses so it's really going to be fun to to first talk to our listeners
 about what he has written I encourage people to read this paper between now and next week
 so that you you know what we're talking about you know what captivated me on my plane fight
 to northern California by the second by the time I was half of the second page and and
 what motivated me to find out what is AACs because what essentially Vista is is AACs brought
 to Windows and this is what Peter analyzes and what we're going to be talking about next
 week are the the user side consequences of Microsoft deciding to turn Windows into a content
 delivery platform with this much security because baby you wouldn't believe what they
 have done to Windows look what they've done to my windows ma well we'll cover that next
 week on this very episode now that we have a little foundation to understand what AACs
 is up to and how it's going to impact it and we will have Peter Guttman join us which
 is going to be fun yep we don't do a lot of interviews but this will be fun a reminder
 that you could find this podcast in its 16 kilobit version along with transcripts this
 might be one worthwhile one for the transcript at Steve site grc.com that's also where you'll
 find a spin right which is the program that Steve created some years ago now in version
 six and it's the ultimate hard drive maintenance and I might say my day as add data recovery
 utility really a great program yep you have a you have a letter I think oh I always do
 add actually spin right was spin right was busy over the holidays is a really quick one
 that I really liked though because it talks about sort of a different aspect of spin right
 he says hello there is this guy named Dennis he says a few weeks back I started noticing
 a troublesome sector one file was stubbornly refusing to be read sometimes it worked most
 often it didn't I fired up spin right and once done the file was fully accessible even
 though spin right found no errors and flew right through the troublesome area hmm yesterday
 it started to act up again and this time more severe than before spin right to the rescue
 he writes this time spin right immediately discerned that the sector had troubles and
 a few seconds into dynastatting got a perfect read and subsequently told the drive to swap
 out the faulty one needless to say the file is now fully accessible many thanks Steve
 spin right continues to be the best eighty nine dollars I ever spent so that was a case
 of some an intermittent problem and and spin right didn't catch it the first time but when
 it did what is dynastat dynastat well yeah what happened was this sector was on the verge
 of failing and and so when spin right first looked at it it was able to get a perfect read
 and the drive wasn't concerned enough about it either you may remember that a while ago
 I talked about how ECC error correction code technology is now always being used by drives
 and that the ECC correction allows the drive to gauge the size of the error that it's correcting
 and at a certain point the error gets so long that the drive decides oops I better I better
 remove this sector from service okay so so dynastat is the technology that I first incorporated
 in spin right three one stands for dynamic statistics because spin right is actually
 able to use non standard drive commands to read the data from unreadable sectors which
 nothing else that I know of does which is one of spin rights tricks is it performs multiple
 rereads and builds a database of different data that it gets from the sector and is able
 then to reverse engineer what the original data was so it was able to basically figure
 out what the data was correct it tell the drive okay you've got a problem here let's
 put in a spare and then spin right rewrites the corrected data into the newly allocated
 sector so that's some of the magic going on just you know under the hood very cool well
 done spin right to the rescue as he says grc.com for that and of course a lot of steves free
 stuff how's the how's secureable coming along it's done actually I'm secureable is the utility
 I talked about two weeks ago is finished I noted I looked at my news group I made the
 0.99 version available to the people in our news group they're they're reading through
 all of the text that it encompasses to find typos and apparently they found some so probably
 in two weeks will I'm going to formally release it I need to get a web page up now in order
 so that it makes sense to people but it has turned out so cool Leo it turns out that my
 tablet PC my little HP 11 my TC 1100 has a processor that can support hardware depth I
 never knew it because it's turned off it turns out the BIOS is turning it off and there's
 no way to turn it on so secureable told me that my Pentium M can offer me hardware depth
 support even though the hardware won't so the next utility which will be called deputy it
 will have technology to allow you to to enable things which your BIOS has disabled Microsoft
 recently got a concession from a concession is the right term maybe an agreement from
 all system manufacturers to stop disabling hardware depth by default many of them had
 been we had a bunch of users who using search secureable found out that there's also was
 turned off in their case they did have BIOS options they'd never paid attention to that
 allowed them to turn it on the same thing is true of the virtualization technology so
 secureable is now telling people if they've got 64 bit capability hardware depth capability
 and virtualization so anyway it's that's you know we got some good stuff on the way can't
 wait can't wait that'll be a what next week or so that you'll get that out I think well
 I'm working on it now and so net and next week we're going to talk with with Peter about
 the the consequences of the marriage of AACS and Vista and then the following week will
 be our formal release an announcement and I'll talk about secureable excellent yay GRC.com
 shields up is there too lots of other free software it's really a great resource Steve
 Gibson thanks for joining us happy new year and we'll see you next week with a discussion
 of Vista and what's wrong with it from the point of view of Peter Guttman as a well known
 security expert right and I want to again encourage people between now and then you'll
 have a link to it all have a do your homework on the show notes this is a riveting paper
 that Peter has written it's it's it's it's written not very long in a fun easy to understand
 fashion make sure though that you read all the way to the end when I was reading a newer
 the the December 28th release it looked to me like he'd removed a lot of juicy bits from
 the paper it turns out that he moved them to numbered notes at the end so don't stop until
 you've read the whole thing there's a bunch of really cool stuff at the end too he also
 responds to some criticism so forth so that you can see the back and forth going on right
 and we'll of course get a lot more from him next week really really interesting thank
 you Steve have a great week and we'll see you next time on security now
