 This is Twit.
 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by AOL Radio at AOL.com/podcasting.
 This is Security Now with Steve Gibson.
 Episode 74 for January 11th, 2007, Peter Gutman and the cost of Vista content protection.
 Security Now is brought to you by Astaro, makers of the Astaro Security Gateway, on the web
 at www.astaro.com.
 It's time for Security Now with the fabulous Steve Gibson, and this is in some ways is a
 part two.
 Last week we talked about some pretty tough stuff, content protection, the new AACS content
 protection that's going to be part of Vista, part of any high-def DVD player you have.
 All of this was kind of prompted by an article that was just spread like wildfire over the
 Christmas break.
 Right, well, it generated a lot of controversy because it became clear from the article published
 by Peter Gutman, who's in New Zealand, a New Zealand-based, very well-known, good reputation
 security analyst.
 He took a look at the consequences of essentially putting this AACS, the Advanced Access Content
 System, which has been assembled by a number of hardware companies in order basically to
 appease the interests of Hollywood in order to say, "Look, this is the way we're going
 to protect the next generation of content."
 As we saw last week, and the reason we spent last week's episode was to create some historical
 context for the legislative side and the technical side.
 Basically, AACS is a phenomenally complex technology that involves state-of-the-art
 encryption, it involves some stuff you just can't even get your mind around.
 I will never try on security now explaining the subset difference tree system for allowing
 keys to be revoked by keeping those specific players from being able to perform the decryption.
 It's mind-numbing what they've done.
 It's one thing for that to be in an HD DVD player, and in fact, we've already seen consumers
 have seen the consequence of that when they stuck a DVD into their first-generation players,
 it would take up to or in some cases more than a minute for the player and the disc to negotiate
 all of the crypto going on just internally within the player.
 And Leo, I was thinking about how you had commented that when you stuck your HD DVD on
 your Xbox 360, it didn't take long.
 And I realized...
 Well, it's got faster processor.
 Exactly.
 It talks faster.
 Yeah.
 That's a monster.
 It's got three gigahertz power PC, Sarah.
 Exactly.
 Yeah.
 So it's a very different platform there than a typical consumer drive where they're trying
 to keep the cost as low as possible.
 So anyway, I'm excited.
 We're going to have Peter joining us here in a moment from New Zealand because we wanted
 to talk to him, get his side of this, talk about what the paper that he wrote is about.
 And I just wanted to sort of give a little bit of a preface and explain that basically
 Microsoft has decided that they want Vista to be able to deliver this kind of content.
 And what Peter's paper is about is the essentially the cost of delivering this content.
 And what it means is that so many aspects of our PCs, which have been fully documented,
 been public domain, been, you know, anyone could develop a display card.
 For example, that's no longer the case.
 If you're going to be, if you're going to have any foot in this next generation game,
 you have to sign up and apparently pay hefty license fees just to participate.
 And if you don't, if you don't get certificates which are subject to spontaneous revocation,
 if you then subsequently misbehave, or in fact, I read one of the ACS organization documents
 that said that you could be revoked if you fail to pay your annual dues.
 Your card would stop working in my PC.
 Exactly.
 It would literally the hardware that the consumer purchased could be shut down.
 Never buy a card from somebody who's about to go bankrupt.
 That's a very cool thing is nuts.
 This is just nuts.
 We're going to talk to Peter in just a bit and get the details.
 But I want to do think before we get there going here, I want to thank a Staro Corporation
 our sponsor for security now.
 They really support us with financially and they make this show possible.
 And so if you could do us a favor, if you're a smaller, medium business, looking for some
 real protection.
 I mean, not just anti hacker or firewall.
 We're talking spam, viruses, VPN and intrusion protection, content filtering too.
 This is an industrial strength firewall.
 This is a complete protective device, it's a simple, easy to use appliance and you can
 try it for free.
 Just call a Staro, A-S-T-A-R-O dot com, eight, seven, seven, the number four, A-S-T-A-R-O.
 And they will set up a free trial of a Staro security gateway in your business.
 We've talked to many, many people who've done this and are very happy that they heard about
 a Staro on security now.
 And by the way, if you're a non-business user, you can also download the software for free.
 W-W-W-W dot A-S-T-A-R-O dot com, we thank them for their support.
 So let's call New Zealand.
 Let's talk.
 What do you think?
 Let's talk to Peter.
 Great.
 Let's just start off the interview by asking you about your background.
 I mean, you're a fairly well-known security researcher.
 I gather a computer scientist as well.
 Yeah.
 So my background is it's actually a bit of both academia and industry.
 I have an open source security toolkit, which is available under a dual license.
 So it's both GPL or commercial.
 It's a sleepy cat license, if you're familiar with that.
 And people can choose what they want.
 And when I'm not working on that, I get to play with any kind of security stuff that
 happens to interest me.
 So, for example, with Vista, just before Christmas, I had a bit of spare time.
 And some people have been talking about this in private, and I started going out and looking
 at the specs and was kind of frightened at what was in there.
 And so I thought, you know, I should maybe do a write-up of this in analysis to let people
 know exactly what's hiding inside Vista.
 In fact, it was because of Peter's crypto toolkit that he and I first had a dialogue.
 It's funny.
 When I was sending email back and forth to him, it was disappearing into one of my folders,
 and it took me back to a conversation Peter and I had had briefly back in 2002, about,
 you know, five years ago.
 And I was asking him about the licensing terms for his toolkit, because I was looking around
 for something that I could trust and, you know, to sort of use for core crypto stuff.
 And so we had a dialogue back and forth.
 And of course, Peter's also done some work in secure hard drive erasure, and he has an
 often quoted piece of work that talks about how to deeply erase magnetic media.
 And so, of course, from my background with Spinrite, there was another connection there.
 So I've seen Peter's name around a lot.
 And in my case, someone, I think it was in the GRC News Group, posted a link to Peter's
 article.
 And as I mentioned on our podcast last week, I printed it out, didn't have a chance to
 read it before taking off to travel for the holidays.
 But I was on the, I was on an airplane flying home.
 And by the time I was on the second page, I was just riveted by the content.
 And of course, you know, as we talked about last week, essentially, there's a next generation
 crypto system for protecting high value content, which is known as AACS, and what Microsoft
 has done is they've decided they're going to make Vista be a valid, secure delivery platform
 for AACS protected content.
 And so basically what Peter's paper does so well is to open people's eyes about, I mean,
 the real world consequences of turning Vista into a sort of a next-generation DRM platform.
 For those of you who haven't read it, it's called a cost analysis of Windows Vista content
 protection.
 Let me just give you the executive summary, and then we can go point by point through
 some of these things.
 Or the executive executive.
 I know.
 I love the short, short version.
 But let's start with the little longer version.
 Windows Vista includes an extensive reworking of core OS elements in order to provide content
 protection.
 That's that AACS you're talking about for premium content, typically HD data from Blu-ray and
 HD DVD sources.
 Here's the gist of it.
 Providing this protection occurs considerable costs in terms of system performance, system
 stability, technical support overhead, and hardware and software costs.
 And these issues affect not only users of Vista, but the entire PC industry since the
 effects of the protection measures extend to cover all hardware and software that will
 ever come into contact with Vista, even if it's not used directly with Vista.
 For example, hardware in a Macintosh or on a Linux server.
 Then the executive executive summary, the Vista content protection specification could
 very well constitute the longest suicide note in history.
 You read all of that stuff Peter?
 There's a lot of material online from Microsoft, I mean they're not keeping this a secret.
 No, well the best paper is the first one I've given the reference is the output content
 protection at Windows Vista, which was presented at the Winheke conference in 2005 by Dave
 Marsh, who is the program manager for as far as I can tell for DRM inside Microsoft.
 And that goes into an extraordinary level of detail about all this stuff.
 But yeah, they have a number of other public papers that describe what they're trying
 to do.
 One question I had was that I read the AACS specs and I got sort of a, I think a relatively
 good handle on what AACS is.
 I didn't see in the specs anything about this notion of constriction.
 And I'm wondering if that's something that Microsoft has done to sort of try to appease
 the content owners while not completely disabling non, non-securable outputs.
 Right, well the thing is they're terrified about the analog hole.
 Well, not so much Microsoft, I think Hollywood is terrified of the analog hole.
 And so they're desperately trying to make sure that, you know, they can't close it entirely,
 but they can at least make the quality of the content that goes through the analog hole
 so poor that it's not worth copying.
 Right.
 And I have some sense from, I know that you mentioned in your paper that you have other
 sources that have required that they remain anonymous and in fact you went to the length
 of deliberately restating some of the things they told you, trying to maintain accuracy,
 but you know, really to protect their identity.
 Right.
 And so the one thing I'm wondering is, can you give us some sense for where this is coming
 from, that is how much of it is pushed from Hollywood and how much of it is Microsoft
 sort of trying to deliver something maybe that no one really wants?
 I think it's a bit of both.
 I mean, Hollywood have this huge wish list of stuff that they've been pushing for years
 and years and you know, people have analyzed the technical side of things and said that
 what they're trying to do is impossible in terms of closing the analog hole and making
 content uncopiable, you know, there's a wonderful quote from Bruce Schnier saying that trying
 to make content uncopiable is like trying to make water not wet.
 I love that.
 And there's a whole lot of legal CYA in there in the specifications where they say, you
 know, device manufacturers must demonstrate their commitment to the party line rather
 than saying you must do this, this and this, they say you must demonstrate that you strongly
 committed towards cognitive protection.
 And I think probably what Microsoft is doing is the same thing, they want to demonstrate
 to Hollywood that they really, really committed towards cognitive protection.
 That's a lousy specification, not telling you what to do with just saying prove it.
 Right.
 Prove you care.
 Yeah, but you know, the problem is a lot of this I think is driven by legal worries.
 And so if they say you must do this and then it gets broken, they're in trouble.
 And they can't be specific.
 Right.
 They can't afford to be specific because if they end up being wrong, then they liable.
 And I guess one of the things that is not immediately obvious even in, well, I guess
 your paper sort of began me thinking down this direction, but then reading the AACS stuff
 and looking at all of the, at the revocation technology, which has been bundled into this,
 and it's very clear that while Microsoft is bearing some responsibility, there's a tremendous
 onus also put, for example, on graphics card makers.
 I mean, they're hugely incentivized to make their cards perform and their drivers perform
 really at a level of quality that we've never asked from them before.
 Right.
 And that's particularly nasty for them, you know, because they're not given any hard
 and fast rules.
 They're just told that you'd be to show a lot of compliance and if it's not enough,
 you can guarantee that you'll be in hot water.
 Well, you know, Paul Therat, who does a Windows podcast for us, made the point, I'd like
 to hear you address it, that this, the alternative for Microsoft is to be a second-class citizen
 in terms of supporting content.
 You play by Hollywood's rules or you don't play at all.
 What's your response to that?
 I think that's very much a read-hearing and, in fact, I've been updating the document
 constantly to cover this and I addressed it in a very recent release.
 Microsoft owns, I don't know what it is, 95% of the market or so on and particularly for
 desktop OS's, they own pretty much the entire market.
 They could quite easily say to Hollywood, you know, we're not going to put this stuff
 into the operating system because it severely degrades the performance and reliability and
 so on and so forth.
 Take it or leave it.
 You know, this is assuming that Hollywood relies entirely on Microsoft.
 Sorry, that Microsoft relies entirely on Hollywood.
 Well, Hollywood relies entirely on Microsoft.
 If Microsoft's degree refused to do this, Hollywood can't afford to ignore 95% of the
 market.
 So I think there's a bit of a read-hearing.
 Companies like Apple, people who make Linux distributions, could safely ignore this content
 protection and say, well, you know, we don't have to do it, let Microsoft do it, we won't
 do it.
 Right.
 And that's, you know, so the example you cited of the suicide note, that was actually
 taken just a sort of a bit of a background information.
 That was taken from the British Labor Party's 1983 election manifesto, which someone said
 was, you know, the longest suicide note in history, the Microsoft suicide notes a bit
 longer.
 But the thing is that was so bad that their opponents actually printed it out and used
 it as propaganda for their own cause.
 And so, you know, it could well be that Apple's going to go and point out some of these really
 nasty things inside the buster and say, you know, look at how bad this is by our computers
 and our operating system instead.
 So we think the Linux people are going to use it for propaganda to make Linux good.
 Right.
 So this is a technical podcast.
 So I think we should probably, Steve, you know, walk through these various consequences
 of this copy protection scheme, especially since we've already talked about a ACS in detail
 last episode.
 Right, I think that the point that Peter's paper makes so well is that -- and this is
 actually how he and I began corresponding via email -- is that the PC has traditionally
 been an open platform.
 I remember very clearly when I got my very first real IBM PC with a big 10 megabyte hard
 drive, the technical reference manuals you could get with it had the schematics of the
 machine and the source code of the BIOS just provided by IBM as part of the package.
 And that really sort of came from Apple because the Apple II had the same thing.
 And it really kick started the PC revolution.
 Oh, well, I mean, you know, my first PC application was a little thing called Flickr Free, which
 replaced a chunk of the IBM PC BIOS because it was so poor at scrolling the CGA, the
 color graphics adapter card.
 And so I was hugely empowered by the fact that IBM had left the platform so open.
 And of course, you know, everyone remembers how the PC just exploded with all this add-on
 software and hardware.
 And of course, IBM famously sort of backed away from their open stance when they created
 that horrible micro channel architecture, which was pretty much stillborn.
 But still, I mean, ever since then, the PC has been fully documented.
 You could get specs.
 You could find, you know, sample code.
 I mean, it's just been this tremendous environment.
 And what really what really upsets me is to do what Microsoft has decided they're going
 to do requires closing down major chunks of the architecture.
 Well, let's start with section one, disabling of functionality.
 And you talk about how Spidif will no longer work with the protected content.
 You talk about how if you bought a video card that supported HDMI digital video with HDCP,
 you're going to have to buy another one because they didn't really work when they first came
 out.
 So the problem with that is in order to HDMI is basically slight variation of standard
 DVI output that you have on things like LCD flat panels.
 In order to protect that, you have an encryption mechanism called HDCP.
 And to do that, you need to put encryption keys onto your video card.
 The problem is that it costs money to put these individual encryption keys onto each
 video card.
 So to reduce costs, the card manufacturer simply emitted them.
 So, if you bought a supposedly HD-ready video card, it won't work because it doesn't handle
 the encryption.
 If you spend money on Spidif, it won't work because it has to be disabled because there
 is no protection on it.
 And that's the nasty thing with a sort of audio fanatics or anybody who basically wants
 to produce high quality audio from a PC where you have some sort of digital interface and
 maybe even optical output connected to some, you know, expensive amplifier or whatever.
 And because there's no protection involved in the audio output, it has to be disabled.
 Now we should make that clear.
 It's disabled only when you're playing back protected content like an HD DVD or a Blu-ray
 DVD.
 I mean, it's not always disabled.
 It's not always disabled.
 No.
 On the other hand, it's problematic because then if you look at the window speaks, sorry,
 the microphone speaks for the content protection, let's say you're playing, you're making a
 Skype phone call and in the background you're playing some, you know, pretty good content
 music or some kind.
 Because that all goes through the same sound output system, that it kind of infects everything.
 So the particular content infects every other content that happens to be going through the
 system at the time.
 We in fact wouldn't be doing this interview now because I used optical outputs.
 So they'd be shut down.
 Well, they're not exclusively shut down again reading the speaks.
 I think probably what most manufacturers would do is just shut it down.
 But what the speaks say is that depending on how much particular content is present,
 you partially shut it down.
 So for example, if you're playing particular content and it's very quiet, then some of
 it will be shut down and if the volume increases, more of it gets shut down.
 There's also this issue and this is to prevent the analog hole I gather of disabling or really
 reducing quality of other outputs so that if you don't have HDCP, you can watch it, but
 it's really only for a EI.
 Right.
 That Microsoft say that any display device that has a resolution of more than 520K pixels
 which in practice is a resolution of about 800 by 600.
 Yeah, it's everything.
 Have to have its output degraded.
 Now if you look at the VISTA specs, in order to run ERO, you need a resolution of 1024 by
 168.
 So basically it means that anything connected to a VISTA machine running the ERO interface
 will have its output degraded.
 When will the output be degraded?
 It's this premium content present.
 Unless you have an HDCP enabled card?
 You need an HDCP enabled card and an HDCP enabled display.
 Ah, so my display isn't going to work.
 Right.
 So it's, well, even then, so what Microsoft defeat is you have to put a piece of hardware
 into your video card called a constrictor which basically downscales the video to some
 extremely low resolution and then upscales it back again.
 So effectively you get a very low quality output.
 But because this requires custom hardware or custom drivers or whatever, stuff that the
 manufacturers haven't actually been able to put into their cards yet, it seems that at
 the moment when people are trying to play HD content or premium content, they simply
 don't get any output at all.
 Great.
 So it was my feeling, and I guess this is from something I read in some forums, that
 in fact the current HD DVDs would play, for example, on a consumer HD DVD player even
 out of their component outs because the policy that goes along with the content was not yet
 so restrictive that the policy makers were saying we're not going to allow analog output
 to happen.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Because they're so afraid of consumer rejection.
 I mean, obviously if you put an HD player into some huge plasma screen, it's been thousands
 of dollars and you put a disc in it, it doesn't play.
 You're not going to be very happy.
 So at the moment, yeah, they're turning off this constriction.
 However, how Windows handles this is another matter.
 If you look at, I've been reading a pile of web forums about this, and the thing you see
 over and over again is I bought a computer, it came with an HD drive, I put the disc in,
 it didn't play.
 So maybe Windows doesn't honor that or doesn't handle it that well.
 Well it's interesting because I have an Xbox 360 also from Microsoft with an HD DVD drive.
 It doesn't have HDMI out, doesn't obviously have HDCP.
 It plays high quality over component outputs and looks great.
 I guess you just haven't enabled it.
 I mean, here's a Microsoft product where they haven't made that compromise.
 You think that though, Vista will.
 From the reports, you know, from beta testers and so on, from the reports we've been seeing,
 I mean, it's, you know, it's really hard to predict the future because it hasn't been
 officially released yet.
 But from reports from beta testers, a standard complaint is that they put the disc in the
 drive and it doesn't play.
 Let's talk about some other consequences of this copy protection.
 Some of these are serious to a limited audience, for instance, open source hardware support.
 It's now going to be very difficult to write an open source driver for any of this hardware.
 Right.
 Yeah, so one of the things they require, one of the things you've worried about is someone
 creating a, some emulation of a hardware device.
 So you emulate perhaps in software or perhaps in hardware, a sound card or a video card
 or whatnot and then Vista sends the decrypted content to your artificial sound card, your
 artificial video card and you think got direct access to it.
 The reason why they're worried about that is because this is exactly what people have
 done in the past under Windows XP.
 They've created sort of loopback devices or whatnot and Windows has sent the content
 to some loopback device or some artificially created device driver that pretends to be
 the real thing.
 You could capture keys and things like- Well, not so much capture keys, capture content.
 The content itself.
 Right.
 And so to disable this, they require something called HFS, sorry, HFS hardware functionality
 scan, which means that the device driver has to probe the hardware and try to determine
 whether it's genuine hardware or not.
 So it executes undocumented features or, you know, exercises some sort of undocumented
 functionality or pokes around inside the thing in such a way that hopefully it can't be faked
 by a malicious piece of hardware.
 The problem is in order to do this, you can no longer document the internals of the device
 because if you did, then someone else could write an emulator for the device that pretends
 to be the real thing.
 So you can't publish specs and you can't publish source code?
 Right.
 Now, again, the language in the speakers kind of wish you washy, it doesn't say you can't
 publish any specs at all.
 It simply sees that some aspects of the device will have to be kept proprietary, but that's
 kind of nasty for anyone writing open source software because, you know, if you've got
 a graphics card, you need to know exactly how it works in order to write the drivers
 for it.
 And if half the thing is undocumented, it becomes very hard to support properly.
 Isn't it possible that just the undocumented part will be the premium content playback
 and everything else will be documented and then you could still write a driver for Linux,
 for instance, but it just wouldn't play back high def movies.
 Well, there's nothing—there's no—it's not that you could partition a card into one
 specific premium content, but everything else is public.
 What they're requiring that you do is that you exercise, and again, the specs of vape,
 but some sort of functionality of the card, the graphics rendering engine is an example
 like in several cases.
 And to determine whether it really is a genuine card or a copy of the thing or an emulator
 that someone's created, and, you know, leaving the whole graphics rendering engine undocumented
 is a pretty nasty denial of service on anyone who wants to write open source drivers for
 it.
 Well, and the other thing that I think is really interesting and Microsoft spec makes
 us very clear is they have this notion of a user accessible bus and the—essentially,
 if you have a separate graphics card and they make a big deal about the difference between
 an integrated graphics subsystem on the motherboard where you don't have a bus exposed and this
 notion of a separate graphics card because, again, that bus is an opportunity for someone
 to snoop the bus and capture content as it's going from the motherboard up to the graphics
 card.
 So there's a whole—and a whole other level of technology where essentially they're doing
 a modified AES-128 encryption on the fly at high bandwidth, which turns out to be very
 difficult to do.
 Right.
 And I think the three—the three models for that is if you've read the book Hacking
 the Xbox, the guy who first sort of broke the security on the original Xbox.
 Right.
 Attached a FPGA-based logic analyzer to the system bus, and so they're trying to encrypt
 the system buses to stop exactly that sort of attack.
 It's kind of interesting if you read through the specs and you think back, okay, what
 are they trying to defend against?
 You know, here was a published attack and presumably they worried about exactly this
 kind of attack and so they're taking these very unusual and probably excessive measures
 to try to defend against them.
 And the problem is that, you know, again, from Microsoft's own documents that current
 processes simply don't have the horsepower to do both video processing and encryption
 of high bandwidth content.
 The other thing that I found interesting was that VISTA introduces this notion of a so-called
 protected environment where applications or that is to say processes running within what
 Microsoft calls the VISTA protected environment are inaccessible to a much greater degree
 than existing applications.
 For example, in XP would be the idea being to prevent people from sort of the outside
 of this protected environment from being able to snoop into other things running on the
 same system.
 Right.
 And that's one of the sad things about this whole VISTA DRM effort, but put a huge amount
 of work into creating this particular environment.
 Now, imagine if they'd used that to protect against viruses and malware and droop, and
 so forth.
 Exactly.
 Exactly.
 It's one of the things that I think I may have commented on last week was that as you
 read this, you get a sense for this phenomenal amount of industry which has gone into turning
 VISTA into this platform that can play HD, DVD, and various types of other source forms
 of high definition protected content.
 I mean, it's not something that it's clear that a majority of VISTA users will even take
 advantage of, yet even so, all that work was done, instead of all these other features
 that we were supposed to be getting in Longhorn that were stripped out, and they've basically
 burdened the operating system with all this technology.
 Well, ironically, they've made it more susceptible to malware.
 These tilt bits.
 Talk a little bit about the tilt bits, Peter.
 Right.
 What tilt bits are is the name's taken from pinball machines, we had tilt teams to monitor
 physical interference with the device.
 Yeah, if you pick up the machine and get the ball in the hole, it's tilted.
 Right.
 And so Microsoft have done or required that hardware manufacturers do pretty much exactly
 the same thing.
 The nasty thing with this is that, well, to put it bluntly, it makes your hardware and
 your system a lot less reliable.
 The typical PC is thrown together out of all sorts of random bits and pieces with different
 tolerances and half apart to made by the cheapest possible manufacturer, so a lot of them are
 cheap and nasty.
 So they're designed to have a certain amount of tolerance for voltage fluctuations and
 strange bus signals and bugs and device drivers that set hardware bits wrong and so on and
 so forth.
 The problem is that if you do get these strange voltage fluctuations or strange noise on the
 system bus or whatever, that could also be a sign of attack and so Microsoft have said
 that hardware has to monitor for any of these peculiarities and if they're found then it
 sets these tilt bits in a register somewhere.
 If the policy is tilt bits and if any of them are set, it reacts in some vaguely specified
 but somewhat drastic manner.
 Do you want to shut down or crash or put up with your screen?
 Well, so what the specs say is that you're trying to find the exact quote because it's
 vague enough that you're going to have to quote Microsoft rather than try and figure
 out what does that mean.
 When I say that it initiates a complete receipt of the graphics system and it also mentions
 it's a restart.
 Now, I don't think it's a restart of the PC as a whole, presumably it's just a restart
 of the graphics subsystem.
 Yes, and it requires a re-authentication of the whole system to be self-consistent internally.
 Right.
 So I think the effect is going to be that if any of these tilt bits get set, there will
 be some drastic amount of processing and change of system state going on in VISTA and I don't
 know exactly how noticeable it's going to be whether it takes five seconds or ten seconds
 or half a second or whatever, but whatever the case, if some slight glitch is detected
 then VISTA is going to do some serious reconfiguration of system state for some fixed
 amount of time, which as you point out makes it just prime for a denial of service attack
 from malware.
 Right.
 Well, yeah, I mean, if you want to call for the disturbance in the system then just trigger
 one of the tilt bits and watch VISTA drive itself nuts with doing a restart of the subsystem.
 But even then, you know, someone mentioned on a blog and I think this was quite a neat
 quite, it was something like, yeah, quite tilt bits are quite clearly insane.
 And they are.
 What hardware manufacturer would voluntarily make me have we less reliable and less stable?
 Does it?
 What tilt bits are going?
 Does all of this content protection, okay, it affects reliability.
 Does it also slow the system down?
 I would imagine it does because you've got this huge layer of bloat sitting in the intercepting
 all audio and video output and content output and processing.
 This doesn't come for free.
 I mean, again, from the specs, they have to sit there continuously polling and checking
 hardware and checking tilt bits and checking all sorts of other things.
 Right.
 I was just going to say that the spec does require that software drivers at every 30 milliseconds,
 which is essentially, you know, 30 times per second, are going out and polling the hardware
 in order to maintain an intimate relationship with the hardware in order to try to catch
 anybody playing any games.
 I mean, so even when your system is not actively doing something, you've got drivers that are
 busy making sure that nothing continues to happen.
 What you're describing is an operating system that is essentially insanely paranoid.
 I mean, it's just gone off.
 That's true.
 30 times a second.
 Are they hacking me?
 Oh, I mean, that's crazy.
 Right.
 It really is now there's one other aspect that has occurred to me since we last talked
 about this.
 I'd love to get Peter's opinion.
 People listening to this so far and our last podcast might be thinking, okay, so Vista's
 not going to let me watch, you know, HD, this new fangled content.
 But what's also occurred to me is that Vista is sort of retroactively going to become hostile
 to many of the things that people used to be able to do.
 For example, ripping DVDs, decrypting DVDs, you know, where the technology does exist
 for that, suddenly there's the ability to prevent that from happening.
 And that does seem to be what Vista is doing.
 So it's actually it's actually backing people away from things they were able to do historically
 under Windows 2000 and XP taking things away.
 Right, although, you know, someone else pointed out that the Vista content protection is both
 thoroughly obnoxious, but it's actually going to be a major driver towards piracy.
 You quote, "Muslick 64," the guy who came up with the crack of HD DVD.
 Right.
 That was his incentive.
 Yeah, the reason why he was doing this isn't because he's a pirate, but because he bought
 a system with all the HD components and he couldn't play back his video.
 So, you know, if you're an average guy and you've gone out and bought a system with an
 HD player and, you know, high-resolution monitor and so on attached, you put on a desk and
 it won't play.
 What are you going to do?
 You're going to go out in the internet and find some software to crack the copy protection
 because it's preventing you from playing legitimately purchased content.
 So it could actually be a huge incentive towards piracy and towards bypassing the copy protection
 because it's so obnoxious that people just want to get it out of the way.
 Peter, you know, one other thing that I keep asking myself is we know just do the nature
 of physics, as you said in your white paper, it is impossible to do what Microsoft is trying
 to do.
 That is, there is no absolute control over the remote delivery platform, so it's going
 to end up one way or another being cracked.
 Right.
 And the people who have the most incentive are more the commercial-grade pirates that
 are really mass-producing pirated content, we know they're going to come up with a way
 around this.
 So, to me, this seems like a huge amount of burden to put on, you know, people's grandmothers
 who are never going to pirate this content and they're doing it even though it can't
 be effective.
 Right.
 Well, again, you've got the fact that you have to show a certain level of commitment
 to the cause.
 They can now go back to Hollywood and say we've done the best we can towards, you know, showing
 that we're on your side.
 Give us the premium content.
 So it's really not about who are they trying to target.
 It's saying to Hollywood, you know, no one to the best of our ability is going to be
 able to use PCs as little media piracy systems the way they have been for the last 20 years.
 Now, saying paranoia really comes from Hollywood, not from Microsoft.
 It's hard to tell what goes on inside Microsoft, but you know, if you read the technical speaks,
 I think any technical person that reads those specs would say, you know, this is never going
 to work and half of the stuff is nuts.
 On the other hand, it could well be high-level managers who don't, inside Microsoft who don't
 understand the technology and who completely agree with Hollywood and who think, you know,
 we should do this even though other people have told me it's impossible.
 We're going to do it anyway.
 You made such a good point, Steve, when you said that they're doing this for a subset
 of PC users, far from the majority of PC users, and yet we're all saddled with this.
 In fact, Peter, you say at the end of your document, you know, a $50 cheap Chinese-made
 set-top player in the long run, it'll do a better job of playing back this high-def
 content.
 Why don't we just extrude all of this extraneous material from our PC and get it out of there?
 We don't need it.
 Right.
 Exactly.
 Why are we trying to turn the PC into a high-def media device?
 I guess the point that Peter's making overall, I mean, his paper was talking about the cost
 of Windows Vista content protection, is that, you know, we know that Vista is going to be
 selling starting next month in February of '07.
 We know that people buying new machines are going to have Vista on it, so we know that
 a year later, there's going to be a huge install based Vista.
 We know that there will be people wanting to upgrade their XP systems, which are strong
 enough to run Vista to have the latest and greatest, or maybe this will sort of mute
 that enthusiasm for upgrading to some degree, depending upon the kinds of things people do.
 So, you know, this is going to happen anyway, but in order to implement all the technologies
 Microsoft has, it really does insert cost throughout the entire infrastructure.
 The whole Windows PC infrastructure becomes more expensive.
 Right.
 Well, the scary thing is it's not just Windows, you know, because the hardware manufacturers
 have to make these changes and they don't really keep what operating system it's going
 to run on.
 It's going to affect everybody.
 Your graphics cards will become more expensive across the board, even if they're never used
 with a Windows PC, because they still need to have these changes made only for Windows
 Vista.
 So, really, it's interesting, I mean, you could say let's take this out of Windows, but in
 fact, by just putting it in Windows, it's now in everything we use.
 Right.
 Because, you know, again, if Windows, you know, if they own, I don't know what, 1995% of
 the market.
 That's it?
 The graphics card and sound card manufacturers have to handle that, and so they have to put
 this Vista specific stuff in there, even if, you know, Mac OS X or Linux, the free BSD
 completely ignores it.
 We'll put a link to Peter's article, of course, on our webpage.
 It's a long URL, so I'm not going to give it out on the air here, but you can go to
 our show notes and read it, and I do recommend reading it.
 As technical as it sounds, it's easily read and digested, I think.
 Has Leo, has John Dvorak weighed in on this issue at all?
 Yeah.
 Have you heard from Joe?
 No.
 In fact, we'll probably talk about it more.
 We're going to get, actually, we're trying to get a rebuttal from Microsoft on Windows
 Weekly and find out what they have to say.
 I don't expect anything substantive from them, but we want to at least give them a chance
 to say something, and, you know, I think it's pretty clear that the proof will be in the
 pudding.
 I mean, as Vista comes out on the marketplace, if all of these things happen, as Peter has
 predicted, and I see no reason why they won't, but if it all, if this all happens, you're
 going to see a rebellion and may be, you might be right, Peter, this might in fact be a suicide
 note because nobody wants their computer bricks.
 That's the new term we're all going to have to learn.
 And I think Peter made a real good point too, which has been on my mind, and that is when
 you look at all the effort, Microsoft has gone to to protect us from Hollywood or Hollywood
 from us or whatever way it goes, imagine if instead they'd put that industry into protecting
 us from spyware and malware.
 Well, they have done the job, I'm sure.
 You know, I think ultimately the consumers will be the voters on this one and they'll
 vote with their dollars.
 And I have to think, if I'm a business guy thinking about moving to Vista, and I see this,
 I'm going to have some real second thoughts because there's no benefit at all to business.
 A business doesn't want HD content on their computers.
 Now Peter, if you don't have drivers, if like from the business model, if you had a basic
 PC with no HD DVD drive and drivers, you know, security, certificated drivers, no fancy graphics
 card that had all this stuff, you know, would Vista's content protection system just sort
 of like never get activated?
 Is it in there but just completely passive and there's no tilt bits that are going to
 be a problem?
 I think probably the nastier aspects probably wouldn't be activated.
 So again, the specs are vague on just how much of the stuff is actually active at any
 one time because a lot of it is so deeply built into the OS.
 I think a large chunk of it is probably going to be there no matter what and yeah, that's
 deliberate.
 Obviously if you have one version of Vista, it doesn't have the Condi-Protection active.
 The different version of Vista that does, everyone's going to use the unencumbered version.
 You have to put them all of them.
 Well, in fact, I have read through the Vista output content protection document and it's
 very clear exactly what Peter was saying from an architectural standpoint, whole huge subsystems
 have been completely redesigned and moved around from like kernel mode to user mode.
 And there's this whole notion of a protected environment now to keep things from working
 the way they have before.
 So there will certainly be side effects of those kinds of deep architectural changes
 that we wouldn't have needed except that Microsoft decided they wanted to do this.
 Well, and you have to wonder if that's why Vista took so long.
 I mean, this attention to this kind of stuff didn't happen until a few years ago.
 I can imagine Microsoft sitting in 2004 saying, okay, Vista's ready to go and hearing from
 Hollywood.
 Well, hold on there, guys, and imagine it would have taken a year or two to get this stuff
 working right.
 And in fact, historically, we've seen that a lot.
 I was talking last week about how the fights over the content protection for digital audio
 tape, that tape, it delayed its introduction into the consumer market by many years and
 people who know about the industry feel that it may have been all of that that just killed
 it.
 And it just never had a chance to happen.
 We've also been getting lots of complaints from people, admittedly running beta versions
 of driver's for Vista, that the driver's are less functional than the XP drivers, the best
 stable, and so on and so forth, lots and lots of complaints, and I know from sort of off
 the record comments from people working for device manufacturers, they're spending a huge
 amount of effort into getting all this content protection stuff into the device drivers and
 they're frantically trying to get drivers out.
 Must be driving them crazy.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, it's driving them nuts and obviously they're not getting any value out of this.
 For some large graphics manufacturer like A.K.I. or Nvidia, they're getting absolutely nothing
 out of putting all this crippling into their own drivers, but they have to do it because
 Microsoft has said so, and so they're typically with Windows XP, it's got a pile of built-in
 drivers.
 With Vista, the release to manufacturing, a lot of the drivers weren't ready yet at the
 time that was released.
 So, probably the first thing that happens once you install Vista is you have to go online
 and download drivers that actually work a bit better.
 Or support this high-def content protection.
 Well, and in fact, I've been running Vista now for several months and I don't use it
 continually, but when I do fire it up almost all the time, it says, "Oops, there's some
 new updates ready for your machine.
 Go get them."
 Right, and you can see that even with playing back non-predictor content in online forums,
 you can see complaints about it dropping frames and audio stuttering and so on and so forth.
 Maybe it's just because it's beta drivers on the other hand, it could also be because
 all this content protection gunk is getting in the way of simply playing back the content.
 Peter, you're a little bit like Paul Revere.
 I don't know if you know the story of Paul Revere in the US saying the British are coming,
 the British are coming.
 Vista is coming, and really it's only until it's out in widespread use.
 We really know what the true consequences of this decision on Microsoft's part are, but
 I have a feeling there's a lot more to be said about this and we'll be hearing a lot more
 about it in the months to come.
 We thank you so much for joining us on security now.
 Okay, you're welcome.
 Really great to talk to you.
 Thank you, Peter.
 Thanks, Peter.
 Thanks.
 Peter Gutman, again, who is at the University of Auckland in New Zealand, a well-known security
 expert and a guy who has really stirred up a hornet's nest and we haven't heard a lot
 from Microsoft about this.
 These are good hornets, Leon.
 Yeah, these are angry hornets, but it is really a good thing for him to talk about this.
 I have some concern because, you know, this is his opinion, although pretty factually
 backed up.
 Well, Leo, I have read all the Microsoft docs.
 I have read all of the AACS docs.
 Certainly Peter is taking the approach of this is a bad thing, an expensive thing for
 Microsoft to have done, but I can independently vouch for the factual accuracy of what he
 has said.
 This notion of them saying that the screen should be made fuzzy.
 If it's not protectable, that outputs need to be shut down.
 I mean, I have read that myself in documents directly from Microsoft site.
 So all of this stuff is actually, I mean, is absolutely accurate.
 We'll see.
 I mean, of course it's accurate.
 I'm not denying that in any way.
 I just think we won't really know what the price for this is for a few months, but I
 think it will become clear the question is, what are we going to do about it?
 Well, and, you know, Peter made some great points.
 He's been very active out in the blogosphere and certainly he's been the focus of this
 because of his paper, and he talks about, and I have also seen separately, people saying
 that something seems wrong with Vista relative to its ability to robustly play media.
 So you know, that is a playback media, so it may be it's going to take a while for Microsoft
 to get this working smoothly and that they've broken it in the meantime.
 Steve always a great pleasure.
 You could find more details, including a transcript of this great conversation at grc.com.
 I'm going to dig this show so that people can, I think this is the kind of thing people
 on dig and slash that we'll want to know more about.
 Peter hasn't done a lot of interviews, so it's a chance to really hear it directly from
 Peter Gootman.
 You can help us by going to dig.com and digging this story.
 And if you want more information, as I said, transcripts 16 kilobit versions, notes, they're
 all on Steve's site, grc.com.
 That's not the only thing there though.
 That's where you also find Spinrite, which is Steve's fantastic program for hard drive
 maintenance.
 I thought it was funny and recovery.
 It was funny that you'd initially talked to Peter over about hard drives.
 Yeah, exactly, you know, our paths have crossed in many different venues.
 Lots of happy customers.
 You can go to Spinrite, s-p-i-n-r-i-t-e.info to read the testimonials.
 I think that will tell you more than anything Steve or I could say about the value of the
 program.
 We've got a hard drive to really get Spinrite.
 G-r-c-i-k-o.
 Okay, Steve.
 Well, yeah, another week, another episode is in the camp.
 It is.
 And we'll see you next time on Security Now.
