 This is Twigt.
 This is Security Now with Steve Gibson, Episode 78 for February 8, 2007.
 Hardware DEP.
 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by AOL Radio at AOL.com/podcasting.
 Security Now is brought to you by Astaro, makers of the Astaro Security Gateway on the
 web at www.astaro.com.
 I may be a float in a boat somewhere in the Caribbean, but that's no reason not to do
 a security now.
 Hello, Leo Laporte here with Steve Gibson, the security guru.
 So are we depending upon your new software Gizmo to have automatically posted this?
 If you're hearing it, it worked.
 Very cool.
 No, I can actually get online from the boat, but it's very expensive and it's something
 I kind of like to eschew because I'd really prefer not to be posting podcasts from the
 sea.
 Oh, I love that he had the technology to post this on the fly.
 That's good.
 Well, we'll see.
 We'll hope it works.
 The software uses it called Feeder from Reinvented Software.
 The new edition, which just came out, has scheduled posting.
 So if the Mac didn't crash while I was gone, and if the scheduler worked and everything,
 this should have gone up at noon, Pacific time, and if not, I'll, you know, I will check it
 from the boat.
 So yeah, the truth is you could be hearing this and it didn't work, but I just made sure
 that it did.
 I, you know, as much as I say, I don't want to get online when I'm on a boat.
 I always end up doing it.
 Yeah, you're a geek.
 It's slow.
 It's really, you know, it's in, it's a satellite.
 It's very slow and it's something like 40 cents a minute.
 I mean, it's very slow and lots of latency too for the package.
 Huge.
 Yeah.
 It's not so bad for like email, but boy, web surfing is just painful.
 Posting podcast isn't so bad because that's pretty asynchronous.
 You know, you, you do that all locally and then you press post and then you, it doesn't
 take that long.
 Hey, let's talk about, we don't have any, er, errata or things to talk about from previous
 episodes because we recorded these en masse before I got on the boat.
 Right.
 We'll do that next week depending on how much we got wrong, but, which is none, I'm sure.
 But we do.
 We do.
 The best we can.
 We have a great topic today.
 Something you've talked about before, er, data execution prevention.
 Yeah.
 I, I, at the risk of beating this thing into the ground, I want to make sure people who
 could be using it will be using it.
 The, the greatest problem is that it isn't enabled by default.
 Not only maybe by people's biases, but, but certainly by windows.
 This was one of the substantially new and important security features, which Microsoft
 introduced with service pack two of windows XP.
 So it's been around now for years.
 When they first introduced it, there were only some AMD processors and the Intel itanium
 processors, which supported this in hardware.
 The idea is, and we've, we've talked about in detail buffer overflows or overruns, and
 we had, we had a whole podcast about it.
 So if listeners are feeling a little bit like they're late to the party on this, by all
 means, I don't know which episode number it was, but it was just titled buffer overruns.
 We talked about in detail how it is that, that software, which doesn't protect the amount
 of data it allows in, can accept by mistake too much data.
 When that happens, the data flows off or falls off the end of the buffer.
 And due to the architecture of, of PCs and computers in general, it's possible that that,
 that the computer inadvertently execute that data when it's through doing what it was doing,
 you know, essentially gathering this, this, this buffer all together.
 Oops.
 So, yeah, not what you wanted.
 So, so, so the idea is that because this has been such a huge problem for the industry,
 I mean, buffer overruns are just extremely difficult to, to catch a hundred percent of
 and hackers love them because they're, they're, they're able to essentially send something
 to a remote user and essentially inject their code as data into someone's computer.
 The computer then runs it and you no longer have control of your machine.
 I mean, it's, it's epidemic.
 It's such a problem.
 Well, responding to that, the hardware makers have added a capability of flagging pages
 as non-executable.
 Paul calls this and let me think, execute, disable, AMD calls it NX for no execute.
 Right.
 Or you, maybe I got that backwards.
 No, I think you're right.
 Yeah.
 Who was who?
 Unfortunately, AMD, who was early to the game with this, they also call it a EVP enhanced
 virus protection, which is a really annoying sort of marketing term.
 I mean, it doesn't talk about what the, what it actually does at all because it's really
 not about viruses, it's about preventing the execution of data.
 And so the idea is that when the operating system knows that the processor supports this
 and when the processor has it enabled, the operating system can load programs which are
 going to be executable marking the memory, the program, the program occupies as being
 executable.
 But when the program allocates memory for use for its communications buffers, or even
 the, the, the so-called stack, which the program uses for holding data, the operating system
 will deliberately mark those as non-executable.
 The beauty of that is that it, it virtually solves the, it solves the, the vulnerability
 of even, of, well, of even non-known exploits.
 That is, if a hacker finds an exploit which no one knows about and tries to inject their
 own code into the user's data buffer, the, the system itself will intercept this code
 before it has a chance of executing and raise a dialogue on the user's screen telling you
 that this program has violated data execution prevention and is being shut down.
 So what I love about this is it is, it is a preemptive protection against this kind of
 exploitation happening anywhere in the system.
 And whereas antivirus has to be updated with AV patterns, and there's always this counten,
 the cat and mouse game where, where the, where the patterns are behind and you're making sure
 you've got the latest updates.
 And the point is that antivirus is only able to protect against known specific problems.
 This whole DEP, the hardware depth support actually sort of cures a systemic vulnerability
 that all systems and, and software running in the system has.
 It's just, it's, it's fantastic.
 Problem is, it's not turned on by default because there are good programs, which because
 it has never been enforced in the past, good programs might cause false positives.
 And there are some that do.
 There was a version of my, my past favorite anti spyware software at aware, which was
 causing a problem, and in fact, even in some cases, in some settings of hardware, DEP operation,
 the current version of, I think it's pronounced Irfan view, Irfan view is a neat little and
 very popular little image viewing tool.
 It's currently, as I'm writing this, or as we're talking about this, it's at version
 3.99, I believe, and if I set DEP into always on mode, Irfan view will not open.
 The operating system shuts it down before is a chance to execute.
 So there's something going on there.
 We're just causing a problem.
 Irfan is a long time old school hacker, and obviously he's modifying his own stack.
 He's putting together a stack or something.
 And, and, and, and that really, that's perfect segue into one of the things that people who
 start experimenting with hardware DEP support will find is they may find that there are
 things that cause problems.
 Now, Microsoft has four modes in which hardware DEP can function, but before any of them have
 a chance of working, the, the BIOS has to not be turning it off when you boot.
 Some people's BIOSes will have some UI, some, some, some configuration pages that allow you
 to enable hardware DEP support if the BIOS sees that the chip offers it.
 So one of the things I did with Securable, the reason I created Securable, is it's able
 to check to see whether it is available in your chip and whether it has been disabled
 by something, probably your own BIOS when you boot up.
 It turns out that one of my tablet PCs, my little, my favorite little TC 1100, my HP
 tablet, it, the, it has a Pentium M processor that does support hardware DEP, this data
 execution prevention, but the BIOS is disabling it and there's no way for me to enable it,
 which is very annoying.
 So that's one of the reasons I'm doing a follow on utility called Deputy was it will allow
 things like that to be fixed, you know, what I hope are some, some clever fashions.
 I like that.
 And again, deputy is going to be free also.
 Yeah.
 So anyway, so already in our news groups, people who are running Securable have, which
 is just grc.com/securable, S-E-C-U-R-A-B-L-E, many people were surprised to find that their
 chips did support hardware DEP.
 As I mentioned, at the time this first came out in service pack two, only a few AMD chips
 and Intel's high end itanium processors supported this, this ability to, to force an exception
 being raised to the operating system if the, if the processor tried to execute code in
 a page that was marked as not being code executable.
 Now, and for the last two years, virtually all AMD chips and all of Intel's chips, for
 example, my older Pentium M that is now a few years old, do support hardware DEP natively.
 So you have to have support by your processor Securable tells you whether or not you do.
 Then these people who are surprised, for example, in my news group, they went into their bios
 and poked around, and most of them, in fact, I don't think I know of anyone except in my
 own case, who they were able to find configuration settings that were defaulted to disabling
 this execution prevention.
 So it was really frustrating and annoying, first of all, but for whatever reason, again,
 I think in the name of compatibility, making sure that nothing wrong would happen when
 this feature was added to processors, the BIOS makers were concerned that if they left
 it enabled, that it would cause problems.
 So they were deliberately disabling it.
 Most BIOSs, certainly any well-behaved BIOS, is going to allow the user to turn that back
 on.
 Microsoft recently got an agreement from all major hardware vendors not to disable hardware
 DEP on boot, but rather by default to enable it, because Microsoft has learned the lesson
 that defaults are generally what holds sway over PC users.
 And they knew that if people had hardware DEP disabled, they'd just never go about finding
 out that they could get this additional protection, which, as I'm claiming, as I believe, is
 a substantial win for PC users.
 So now, any machines coming out in the future, Microsoft has an agreement from all major makers.
 They're going to leave hardware DEP enabled by the time Windows boots to at least then
 give Windows the opportunity to do what it wants to with it.
 So now that we've got hardware DEP present in the processor and enabled by default, or
 you can use Secureable to see if you've got it and go digging around in your setup pages
 in your BIOS to enable it, if it's not, now we come to the operating system that needs
 to be enabled in order to have this working most usefully.
 Hardware DEP has four different modes of operation, always off, always on, or opt in and opt out.
 What's interesting, and I'm going to be doing some further research on this, I can't find
 any documentation on Microsoft site anywhere because we're seeing a difference between
 always on and opt out.
 That is you would imagine that always on mode would be the same as opting out if you weren't
 having any opt out programs.
 It turns out it's not the case.
 For example, that IRFANVUE program, the IRFANVUE file viewer I was just talking about, it runs
 fine in opt out mode even if it has not been opted out, but it won't launch Windows blocks
 it from launching if I'm running in always on mode.
 So I don't know why, I'm going to be doing some further research, but that does make
 it clear that always on is providing us with some sort of additional protection beyond
 using opt out mode even if nothing has been opted out of.
 So Microsoft's normal mode is opt in.
 What that means is that Microsoft is, and this is what they say, we don't even know
 the extent of it, is they say on their various pages describing this, that some Windows binaries
 are being protected.
 The presumption is okay, not all of Microsoft's own Windows binaries and programs, drivers
 and so forth are being protected, but some are, so I guess that's better than none obviously.
 And why wouldn't I trust their software?
 Exactly.
 I mean, unless I guess a malicious program could pose as that program.
 Oh, no, I mean, no, no, that's exactly it, Leo, is that it's Microsoft, certainly Microsoft
 has been the vector for many of these buffer overruns in the past because they had the
 bugs in their code.
 Well, I would hope they wouldn't exempt Windows or Internet Explorer.
 I mean, that would be a mistake.
 Well, and in fact, it turns out that there are some toolbars for Windows Explorer that
 do have problems with depth.
 So essentially at this point, we're sort of, we're in the frontier mode.
 What you really want to do, if you can, is run depth in the so-called always on mode,
 which is clearly the strongest of all.
 It works for me, except ErfanVue doesn't.
 Now, certainly the Erfan, who is the author of ErfanVue, he can fix it.
 So what I'm hoping will happen is as hardware depth begins to gain momentum and becomes more
 important.
 No one's been talking about this for years since Service Pack 2, partly because we haven't
 had the hardware that supported it, but even now, it's sort of like it's not getting much
 attention.
 It's the reason I'm going to be spending some time creating freeware and, as I am, spending
 time here talking to you and our listeners, Leo, on security now, to raise the awareness
 of this really important and significant benefit.
 Many of the security vulnerabilities that have occurred in the last year were already
 stopped cold by hardware depth.
 That is, had it been in place in the system and enabled properly, those vulnerabilities
 were never a danger to those users who had their system set up that way.
 I mean, this is just a very good thing to do.
 I have two important questions for you, first of all, why would somebody code something?
 Why would somebody need this ability to modify the stack or execute code from the stack?
 And secondly, if you can walk us through the Windows XP, at least, method of turning hardware
 depth on, I would really appreciate that.
 But before I get those answers, if I might, I'd like to just mention a star operation.
 Can I do that?
 And then we'll get your answers.
 This podcast is, of course, brought to you by a star.
 And I do want to make sure that I don't forget to mention a star.
 They've been such a great support to the show.
 From day one, they've signed up for another year throughout 2007.
 And we can't think of really a better partner for security now since a star is, in my mind,
 one of the premier security providers in the world.
 They do the Estaro security gateway.
 That's a small security appliance that has just packs all the power you'd ever want.
 Your protection from spam, from viruses, from hackers, always updated.
 It's got a complete VPN.
 It's got intrusion protection, content filtering, even.
 So it's great for an office.
 And of course, it's an industrial strength firewall, absolutely.
 But it's all in a single, very easy to use high performance appliance.
 You could even try for free.
 Just go to ASTARO.com or you can call a star at 877, the number for ASTARO.
 And you could schedule a free trial of the Estaro security gateway appliance in your
 business.
 If you're a non-business user, you can even download the software and put it on a beige
 box, you know, any old PC, and try it for yourself.
 Really a great company with a great product.
 And we are glad to have them on board, ASTARO.com.
 So let's start with the first, which is why would somebody, why would Irfan write his
 program so that it executes code from the stack?
 I really can't speak to that, Leo.
 What's the advantage?
 You're a programmer.
 I mean, why would you do that?
 Oh, yeah.
 I know all about the stack and I'm a programmer.
 If there are, for example, he might be, he might have several different image display
 algorithms that he has compressed in his own code.
 So he allocates some memory to hold it.
 And then himself decompresses his own code into that memory, which is then marked because
 it's, it's presumed by Windows to be, sorry, it's presumed by Windows to be data.
 So Windows marks it as no execute, even though Irfan's real intention is, I mean, his own
 intention is to execute from there.
 It's, yeah.
 I've seen, I've seen a modifiable code and things like that where you, where you put code
 in a data area and then you modify it depending on what you want the program to do.
 And it's, it's a hack.
 It's an efficient hack, but it's a hack.
 Well, and famously the, the old Windows bit blit routines, that is the bit blit is the,
 is the term for, for moving a rectangle of pixels around the screen.
 Like when you drag a window, you're actually doing blitting.
 You're blitting that around the screen and the original Microsoft code in order to create
 sort of self optimizing blitters that would run as fast as possible.
 They built them on the stack and ran them on the stack.
 So, so there was a real, a real reason once for doing that.
 Now, if Irfan knew that Irfan view didn't run under Windows always on mode, he could
 certainly make a trivial change to his program.
 He'd find out where the problem was and why and he's able to allocate the memory as executable.
 Oh, so you can, when you allocate the memory, you can say this is data or this is code.
 Yes.
 Oh.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 So, it's a pro fix.
 It's so simple to fix.
 So, what I'm hoping is that, that user will, well, or that people will contact him, but,
 but more than just Irfan view that, that as people start trying to live with hardware
 depth turned on, they're going to run into some things that don't work.
 So they could, first of all, they could back off from always on, which for whatever reason
 seems to be the strongest protection possible, they could come back a notch to the opt out
 mode where they may have to exclude some programs that they wish were going to be protected,
 but they exclude them, opting them out of depth protection, in which case, Windows will
 not mark the data they allocate as non-executable, allowing them to run.
 I'm hoping, though, that, that this will create pressure from the industry for programmers
 to clean up those programs, which are, are not currently depth-friendly programs.
 So that, in a relatively short time, people are, are then able to run in always on mode,
 the strongest mode, and that, that, that problems become the exception, or, or much,
 they are actually now an exception, but a much smaller exception, so that it becomes
 really feasible to, to run our Windows systems this way.
 What I'm excited about is everybody with XP can do this, that is, you don't have to
 move to Vista in order to get this hardware depth capability.
 This was added in Service Pack 2, so all XP users will have access to this.
 Now your second question was, walking through it, walking our users through, I'm reluctant
 to do that for a couple reasons.
 It is possible, and we have had reports of it, that Windows will not boot if you switch
 the system into always on mode, or if you, if you increase the strength, you could have
 drivers, third party drivers, all of Microsoft drivers are just fine, and I've got systems
 booting fine in always on mode, many different systems in fact, but it's possible that you
 could have a third party driver that would cause a problem, that's kind of a problem.
 Because you can't.
 That's a problem.
 If you've got that or not.
 Well you can't.
 There are ways around it, but not something I can, I can casually describe in a podcast.
 For example, this is done by modifying the boot any file, which is by default, a, marked
 as a system hidden file in the root of your boot drive.
 So I don't want to go through here verbally telling people, okay, go make changes, this
 is a little freaky like, you know, making changes to your registry.
 The good news is, if you are a power user, you know how to edit your boot any to create
 multiple boot profiles, which is what I have done, you're able to give yourself a menu
 when windows boots saying, how do you want a boot, always off, always on, opt in, opt
 out.
 So, and that's what deputy is going to do for people.
 You'll be able to run deputy my forthcoming freeware.
 I don't mean to be pre announcing this, but this is where I'm headed here is you'll be
 able to run it and it will completely make you safe.
 You'll be able to essentially have deputy change your boot any, any way you want to,
 to give you these boot options to allow you to safely experiment once you find that you're
 able to get booted in always on.
 You could remove that option from your boot any if you didn't want to have to choose it
 or make it the default rather than then being able to, for example, use opt in mode.
 So again, there are unfortunately, this is all sort of, you know, black art, black magic
 on the secureable page where I do talk about this, I have a link to Microsoft's knowledge
 base article describing depth because I didn't want to tease people saying, well, you need
 to use deputy to do this, you don't actually, you can follow Microsoft's instructions, although
 they don't talk about this nice dual boot solution, which is a little bit more advanced.
 They talk about how you can edit your boot any file with these different settings.
 I'm going to leave it there so that only experts go there and if people fear to tread, don't
 worry, we're going to get you there with deputy in a really safe fashion.
 So there is a GUI, I mean, Microsoft does offer a GUI in the, in the system properties
 control panel.
 Does that not do the same thing as the boot any switch?
 Correct.
 It does not.
 It allows you to move between opt out and opt in, but it does not allow you to activate
 the much more strong, always on mode.
 And there's a good reason for that.
 If it would keep you from booting, you should only an expert should be messing with that.
 Exactly.
 And so that'll be the, but basically I'll be providing a GUI in the form of deputy that
 allows people to safely make these changes and create like a, a multi boot mode.
 So they're able to, to really begin running with this thing on in a safe fashion.
 Although I should point out, if it's just modifying boot in it, you could always get
 in a recovery mode and it's just a text file, fix that text file and get the system booted
 again.
 But it's my, again, yes, I would hate to recommend something that causes people's machines not
 to boot, which again, it's why Microsoft has backed off of this so far.
 I congratulate them and salute them for putting this in at all.
 I mean, it is a potentially way powerful solution.
 Now one person in our news group posted a question a few days ago saying, Hey, Steve,
 why are you so hyped up about hardware depth support when there's a way around it?
 You know, what about return to live C. Okay, first of all, he's, he's, he's right.
 There are ways around this.
 What I, what I did was I did a whole bunch of research on the, on the value of hardware
 depth and you know, the, the, the strength of workarounds return to live C is a very clever,
 but also very limited means for bypassing hardware depth and it's not a complete bypass.
 Again, it's very limited.
 In fact, I quote one of the authors on the secureable page already, I quote one of the
 authors of one of the sophisticated work around techniques who himself says this white paper,
 which talks about ways you might be able to get around this, should in no way be be construed
 as suggesting that, that is not very powerful things to do.
 They, they absolutely are that is hardware depth is a potent, a potent solution.
 And this paper should be seen as demonstrating that the, the options for executing arbitrary
 code are rapidly diminishing, which is really what's happening.
 I mean, he's basically saying, yes, we found some theoretical ways that, that it's possible
 maybe for a hacker to still get around this, but they're theoretical more than not.
 The way this works is, notice that, that executable code is, is obviously not going to be marked
 as non executable, that is it'll be in memory, which is executable.
 So imagine a buffer overflow, which doesn't execute code in the buffer, which we already
 know is marked as non executable, but in fact, jumps to some code that already exists in
 the system at a known location, and that that code ends up being something that the hacker
 wants to run them.
 Now, the classic example of this is the actual code for implementing opt out.
 So imagine that a buffer overrun occurs, and it's possible to jump to the routine already
 in windows for, for disabling, depth checking for a given application, and that you're
 able therefore to, to essentially opt the program out so that when you return from that, then
 you are able to execute code in your buffer.
 Now, I can't even say that that's possible, but it's an example of a very clever trick,
 where because we've, we've locked the buffer so that it can no longer be executable, instead
 the hacker jumps to some existing code that sort of helps to achieve their end.
 And again, you can see that this is a real stretch to, to imagine that that's very useful.
 And which is why I'm my enthusiasm for this is not daunted at all.
 The fact that there are some theoretical ways around this kind of very strong buffer overrun
 and buffer execution prevention in no way diminishes the value of this to be, to be
 applied system-wide.
 And you'd have to really get on that system and, and, and have some real access to it
 to make that kind of a, a change, wouldn't you?
 I mean, well, and as a matter of fact, that, that leads us directly into the other feature
 that Vista has, which unfortunately, XP does not have.
 And that's this ASLR address-space layout randomization.
 Notice that the, the, the absolute crux of that exploit was that it knew where some code
 would be sitting in the system.
 If the system now starts randomizing the location of its programs, of its own system programs,
 then it's not possible to know where in memory the code is.
 And that's what ASLR address-space layout randomization does.
 It randomizes the layout of the system's address-space so that hackers cannot know where these things
 are going to be in memory.
 Now, the bad news is that's not available for XP.
 The good news is there is some freeware, which adds this to XP.
 It's been around for a few years, and we'll be talking about it in the future.
 So address-space layout randomization sort of adds the final touch to, to hardware-depth,
 making it even, even more impossible for hackers to exploit using any kind of hardware-depth
 bypass.
 What's the, what is the default for Windows XP always off?
 I don't, I think it's opt-in.
 Yes, and in fact, software is really interesting that you mentioned that.
 Software-depth, and I'm trying to be very good about always saying a hardware-depth when
 I'm talking about hardware-depth.
 Everything I've been talking about so far in this podcast is hardware-depth.
 And my only, and everything that's secureable talks about is hardware-depth, because software-depth
 really isn't.
 What I, what I think must have happened is many years ago, some manager guy was saying
 to his, you know, coders at Microsoft, "Hey, guys, you know, what can we do to fix these
 buffer overrun problems?"
 And they said, "Well, you know, the, you know, the chip manufacturers are going to be adding
 a feature which pretty soon everybody's going to have, certainly everybody buying new machines,
 which will allow us to stop any kind of hardware, I mean, stop in the hardware any kind of buffer
 overrun."
 And so the manager said, "Oh, okay, except that, you know, we're doing service pack two,
 now, not, not in three years.
 So what can we do for service pack two?"
 And, you know, the programmer guy said, "Uh, nothing," and the manager said, "Not the wrong
 answer.
 I don't want to hear nothing.
 Give me something."
 And so one of the programmers, you know, had a brilliant thought.
 He said, "Well, you know, there was a hack once where somebody used structured exception
 handling, SEH, in order to get control of a system.
 And we could do a better job of checking that."
 And so that doesn't happen again.
 And so the manager says, "Oh, is that, is that software depth?"
 You know, and the developer said, "No."
 And the guy said, "Oh, but let's call it that."
 And so they said, "Oh, but it's not."
 And the manager says, "Okay, well, of course this is a synthetic conversation.
 I don't know that anything that's like this ever happened to Microsoft.
 But given the evidence, it would, it would seem that something like that happened.
 So Microsoft calls it software depth and it's not.
 It's better than nothing because it does prevent the exploit of one very limited class of problems.
 Nothing like what hardware depth does.
 Nothing like, you know, really blocking the execution of code in a buffer.
 So having software depth is not the same as having hardware depth.
 But on my Microsoft's defense, it did help to increase the security of Windows a little
 bit, not nearly as much as hardware depth, but on the other hand, you know, it existed
 before hardware depth support was available.
 So it's not a bad thing.
 It's not a bad thing.
 It's the best they could do given the hardware at the time.
 But sadly, hardware depth is, I think it's in opt-in mode, which says that if the BIOS
 it is, I just checked, it says default is opt-in.
 Yes.
 So if the BIOS has not disabled it, as unfortunately some BIOS has have, or so if you turn it on
 on the BIOS, then you'll be in opt-in mode, which gives you some protection for Microsoft's
 own code, which is certainly better than none.
 Microsoft, of course, made sure that none of their own code would be false triggering
 hardware depth.
 We just need to get the rest of the industry to be similarly responsible, in which case
 we're going to be in really great shape with any processors that have been made for the
 last few years that have this stuff enabled.
 And so we'll be coming back to this at least one or two more times in the future, Leo,
 as I have, you know, more of my own solutions ready.
 Anybody who's listening to this could go to the secureable page, grab a copy of secureable,
 run it on your system, see if you've got hardware depth, and if you are a power user
 and feel comfortable finding and modifying your boot any file, there's a link to the
 Microsoft Knowledge Base page that tells you how to change it from opt-in to opt-out,
 which is, it seems to be really safe to use opt-out, and, you know, maybe you could try
 always on, which is certainly the strongest of all, but, you know, we do see more problems
 with always on, I'm just hoping that, you know, we'll begin to create some pressure
 so that the third-party program developers will be and, and driver makers will be able
 to make their software compatible with always on, which is going to end up giving XP users
 and Vista users much stronger security protection that they've ever had before.
 Yay.
 So get secureable.
 I'm downloading it right now because I want to turn on my hardware depth and I just got
 a Boeing and it says, "Yes, hardware depth is available."
 Very cool.
 Not hardware virtualization.
 I'm running an AMD FX64 chip, so, but that's okay because it's running Windows and that's
 all I wanted to run, but I want to turn on hardware at depth.
 If you want to get your copy of secureable, you just go to grc.com, you'll also find many
 other useful tools there, like shields up where you can test your router.
 All these are free, by the way, and many, many more, and one that's not free, but very
 much worth the money and that is, of course, spin right.
 Everybody's favorite.
 My favorite hard drive recovery utility.
 Great for maintenance, keep an eye on your drive, what it's doing, fix bad sectors, recover
 data on bad sectors, and a whole lot more.
 It's from grc.com for testimonials, didn't learn more about spin right.
 S-P-I-N-R-I-T-E.info is the site to go to.
 Yep.
 Yep.
 We hear from people all the time.
 A nice piece of mail, someone named Mark Kramer in Pasadena down here said, "Mr. Gibson,
 after listening to you and Leo on security now, and Leo and his other net casts, I decided
 back in November to buy a copy of spin right just in case I ever had a problem.
 Well, after coming home after the holidays, I found my Windows XP SP2 base PC in a non-bootable
 condition.
 I tried several reboots and it kept getting hung at the Windows XP splash screen.
 I was going to just reload the drive from an image I had cloned about a month ago, but
 then I remembered that I had a copy of spin right 6.
 I shut the machine down, put in the floppy, and turned it back on.
 After answering the easy to understand prompts a way it went.
 It was done in approximately 45 minutes, and I exited the program and rebooted the computer
 in anticipation.
 Sure enough, the PC went through the splash screen and on to my Windows login prompt.
 Everything seems to be back to normal.
 Thanks for your wonderful product and your contributions to the tech community.
 Hope you have a great new year.
 You get those every day, don't you?
 Yeah.
 We get them all the time.
 I mean, it's funny, as I was sorting through these, I thought, "Ah, which one am I going
 to read?"
 It's hard to choose.
 I just love the fact that we're able to fix these things for people because, you know,
 these days with drives being so big, and as we talked about, what I guess it was two
 weeks ago, the shocking, even the claimed, low reliability of drives where Seagate is
 saying that they'll have 0.34% failure per year is like, "Yeah!"
 I just, you know, people are storing stuff they really need on their hard drive, and
 spin right is the, as you say, the best utility for getting it back.
 And you are the best guy for explaining security.
 Steve Gibson, what a great job.
 I know there are a few people who tuned in thinking that we were going to talk about
 Johnny Depp today.
 I'm sorry, this is the wrong podcast, but we do now know about hardware Depp, and I'm
 going to reboot because I just changed my boot.any while we were talking.
 I'm brave.
 I'm bold.
 I'm scared.
 Steve, a great job.
 We'll see you next week.
 Have a great week.
 I will sail back to you, and we'll get on the line via Skype, and we'll put another one
 next week.
 We'll see you next week.
 Take care.
 [music]
