 (upbeat music)
 - Netcasts you love.
 - From people you trust.
 - This is Twit.
 - Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by AOL Radio
 at AOL.com/podcasting.
 (upbeat music)
 - This is Security Now, as Steve Gibson.
 Episode 76 for January 25th, 2007.
 Your questions, Steve's answers number 15.
 Security Now is brought to you by
 a Staro, makers of the Staro Security Gateway,
 on the web at www.ast a-r-o dot com.
 Tiver Security Now, my favorite security expert is here.
 Actually, one of my best buddies of all.
 Steve Bailey, I always enjoy talking to you
 every Thursday on Security Now, and, you know,
 Steve's so dedicated.
 I have to leave town next week to go to New York
 to do Regis and Kelly, and then go on a geek cruise,
 and most of the other podcasts are gonna have to
 take a couple of weeks off, 'cause I'm out of town.
 But Steve said, "No, we will not miss an episode."
 (laughing)
 Steve, I bow my hat to you.
 We're doing three today, Leo, wow.
 We've got some good episodes ahead.
 You know, I was looking at a device
 that would allow me, in theory, anyway,
 to do these shows anywhere, even if I had just kind of
 lousy Wi-Fi, and we're gonna test this out,
 'cause maybe, you know, my dream is someday
 to be on a boat doing the show.
 (laughing)
 We'll see.
 Steve's never giving up.
 He's never gonna not do a show.
 I love it, and I get to catch up on our episode numbers,
 as I listen to, where I twit, and the other long,
 you know, the other long-standing podcasts.
 The only ones you can't compete with are the daily one,
 and the gizwiz, and--
 Oh, goodness, yeah, right.
 Good to show 'cause it's been gone for three years,
 and it's gonna continue on, apparently,
 so you'll never catch up with that one.
 But this is episode 76.
 That's a mod four episode.
 That means in our mod four speak,
 we've got questions and answers.
 Our 15th question and answer episode this week.
 Before we do questions and answers,
 let's talk about last week's show.
 Well, yeah, I have some errata,
 sort of in general, sort of different things.
 First of all, toward the end of last week's show,
 we mentioned that I had finished Secureable,
 which is GRC's latest freeware,
 to show you what features,
 what security-related features your processor,
 your system's current processor has.
 What's funny is I was working on the web page
 when, and it still wasn't public,
 when I went over to Twit to check something
 and saw that because you were on the East Coast
 three hours ahead of me,
 you had already pushed out the podcast.
 So-- Oh, I'm sorry.
 No, it's okay.
 I mean, normally it's sort of later in the afternoon
 or in the early evening, but anyway,
 so I quickly got the page up.
 But a couple people commented that the, you know,
 grc.com/secureable was not present
 when they were listening to the podcast.
 So I wanted to make sure that everyone knew
 that only was the case for, I don't know,
 actually when the podcast went up.
 But anyway, as soon as I saw that it was up,
 I put a page up, even though I wasn't really finished with it,
 then I continued to work on it for a few more days.
 So grc.com/secureable, S-E-C-U-R-A-B-L-E,
 it's also linked to from our homepage, just grc.com,
 and people will be able to grab this little bit of freeware.
 I think it's about 108K,
 which, you know, Leo is big for me.
 It's because I signed everything,
 it's got a kernel mode device driver built into it,
 it also has a whole bunch of text and some graphics.
 So, you know, it's a little larger than my normal 23K XE,
 but you don't have to install it,
 you just download it and run it,
 and it tells you what you've got.
 And actually there's a lot of really funny information
 on the secureable page that I think people will find
 interesting as well.
 - Excellent, well that's my fault, not your fault.
 And you know what I've decided to do,
 because it is inconsistent, in fact, sometimes I forget
 to like, you know, Friday to put the podcast out,
 'cause it's just whenever I think of it.
 - Yeah.
 - So what I'm gonna do is shoot for a consistent time
 every Thursday, would noon Pacific on Thursday work for you
 if I would just say that's our goal
 to get the podcast pushed out then.
 - Whatever you wanna do,
 I think maybe we should be having this conversation
 off the air, because if we commit to noon,
 and then suddenly, you know, for whatever reason,
 one of us is available or something.
 - I have some new software,
 perhaps I'm relying on it a little much,
 but I have some new software that supposedly will publish
 these on a schedule.
 And so I'm gonna try it for these next three,
 because I will be kind of in communicado.
 If they come out at noon,
 that works for me.
 - Pacific on Thursday for the next three weeks,
 then that's the commitment.
 If not, we'll have to, you know,
 take it back to the drawing board and see.
 But in theory, I can enter it into this software
 and then come noon on Thursday, it'll push it out.
 - Cool.
 - We shall see.
 - Cool.
 - One other thing I wanted to mention,
 since we were talking about AACS so much,
 and of course we had Peter Gutman on a couple weeks ago,
 and the whole VISTA content protection thing,
 which actually is gonna be our topic next week,
 because we're gonna talk about Microsoft's
 formal blog response to Peter Gutman's paper
 next week, but I did wanna mention
 that I just, as actually catalyzed by all of this,
 I purchased a Toshiba, the second generation Toshiba
 HD DVD player, and I'll remember that we were talking
 about how it's Linux-based and so forth,
 and thankfully it takes less than a minute
 to recognize the DVD when you insert it.
 The first generation player apparently was a little
 underpowered in terms of its processing power.
 So it took really a substantial length of time
 to go through all the decryption mumbo jumbo
 that any high-def content that is all scrambled
 is gonna require, so I've watched a few things.
 I watched Tomb Raider, as I was saying, I was going to,
 and also the first two Mission Impossibles,
 I have the three boxed HD Mission Impossible set,
 and I have to say I was not that impressed
 with the visual look of HD, but then last night,
 I watched Pitch Black, which was the first,
 it's a sci-fi with Vin Diesel, where he crashes on
 with a bunch of other people on a weird planet
 in the middle of nowhere, and they're besieged
 with the planet's native and not friendly flying things.
 Anyway, it was stunning, and so I realized
 that not all HD DVD is created equal,
 and it's funny because I was talking to Mark Thompson
 about this, and about, I was like bemoaning the fact
 that the DVDs were all saying they were 1080p,
 which technically means their resolution is 1920 by 1080,
 which is substantially greater, for example,
 than my screen, which is sort of first generation HD,
 which is 1280 by 720.
 So I can do 720p, that is 720 progressive, but not 1080.
 Mark's feeling is, content isn't even digitized
 at the higher HD resolution, and frankly, yes.
 And so the idea being people who I go to some real extremes
 to go to 1920 by 1080 to get 1080p
 may be really disappointed.
 - I've read a number of columns lately
 that suggest exactly that.
 In fact, even say that if you have a good upscaling
 1080i display, and some of it does depend
 on the software, the DSP and the TV,
 but if you have a good display that can upscale,
 you're just gonna look almost identical to a 1080p source.
 - Yeah, I'm not surprised, and so my experience has been,
 I just sort of wanted to share this with everyone,
 'cause all the viewing experiences were in the same setting,
 same distance from the screen, same lighting conditions,
 and so I was really able to do some, for me,
 my very first quiet analysis of is high depth worth
 all of this hassle, essentially.
 And I have to say that on a properly digitized movie,
 it can be phenomenally better,
 but so far, I'm only one movie out of four
 that I've watched has really been a discernible difference,
 which I really thought was interesting.
 - Yeah, I also have an HD DVD player,
 I use my Xbox 360, I've been very impressed
 with the ones I've seen so far.
 King Kong looks fantastic.
 - Which of course is boxed along with the--
 - That's right. - 360 player, right?
 - So that's why I saw that one.
 I have C Biscuit, that looks very good.
 What else have I watched?
 I've only watched a handful, there aren't that many HD DVDs,
 and ironically, I haven't seen any of the ones
 that you just mentioned.
 - The one that I'm salivating over,
 not because of the content,
 but I choose them for the content. (laughs)
 - Well, Eon Flux is--
 - Oh, here, one of the worst movies ever made,
 but I guess if you like Tomb Raider, you're gonna love that.
 - Well, okay, and it is apparently,
 I mean, the HD DVD reviews I've read have said,
 it's the best looking disc they have ever seen.
 - Okay, so that'll be worth it.
 - So I mean, I really am interested in getting into seeing
 what the HDness of this is all about.
 - The same thing happened when DVDs came out,
 there were, in fact, I remember when CDs,
 audio CDs came out, there were very bad transcriptions,
 and then eventually, people realized,
 hey, you can't just take the record,
 play it into a microphone, and put it on a CD,
 and the same thing happened with DVDs,
 and I expect the same will happen with HD DVD,
 especially as discerning viewers
 start to become aware of this, they're gonna have to.
 I mean, you see every defect on HD DVD.
 - Right, well, in fact, and last night,
 the, literally, the pores on their skin was very visible.
 You know what, we're shooting a call for help in HD now.
 - Speaking of pores on my skin.
 (laughing)
 - Yeah, yeah, yeah, we actually will be using air,
 believe it or not, airbrush makeup.
 We started using it in Toronto, and that's 4 HD.
 - Right, very cool.
 - The airbrush.
 - Well, and for those listeners
 who are listening to Twit and also security now,
 and I imagine there is probably a lot of crossover,
 I also listened to Twit, and you guys were talking
 a couple of weeks ago about the idea of a dual format
 HD and Blu-ray format player that LG had announced.
 - You can get it now.
 - And I don't know whether you ever noticed the price.
 - $1,200.
 - Exactly, and so, you know, it certainly is possible
 to get a dual format, and frankly,
 I had believed, and this was just from having heard
 it anecdotally, that there would not be dual format players
 because licensing restrictions legally prevented it,
 but it's very clear that at least that's not the case.
 So there is hope that there won't always be stuck
 in this, you know, which format do I need to,
 you know, like the old Betamax VHS debacle?
 - We're praying, we'll see.
 - And the last thing.
 - But if you like HD DVD, AACs or not, I have to say,
 I think it's a good format.
 - And okay, so here I am, I already had the projector,
 so basically I had to run an HDMI digital cable
 because of all of the copy protection stuff
 that supports HDCP, but once done,
 the good news is the HD DVDs are not more expensive
 than regular DVDs, so it's like, okay,
 why would I not buy those?
 Well, the only reason I would not buy them
 is if I really had some need to do something
 with the content other than just watch it.
 - You're right.
 - Because if, for example, I wanted to strip out
 all the annoying commercials or the menuing system,
 I have done that with some of the regular DVDs that I own,
 I'll reauthor them for my own use
 so that you put it in and it just plays the movie
 rather than forcing you to sit there
 and watch, you know, their own previews
 on like movies that are now no longer news
 because you've owned this disc for three years.
 It's like, you know, that's really annoying.
 And the other thing that's interesting
 is that technically it's now illegal for me to do that,
 but when I bought the discs with the intention
 and knowledge that I could decrypt them
 and reauthor them or compress them
 for watching on my Palm Pilot,
 it was not illegal because fair use in the law,
 in copyright law was in effect.
 So, you know, you wonder, wait a minute, you know,
 I could, I bought them with the intent
 of being able to do whatever I wanted to
 with the content that I felt that I had purchased
 and now along comes the DMCA
 that makes it illegal for me to do decryption.
 So, no. (laughs)
 And speaking of that, I don't know if you picked up the news
 that our friend, Muselik 64, has not only cracked HD
 but now Blu-ray.
 - And that's because it's still ACS, it makes sense, right?
 - Well, but what's interesting is
 he didn't even have a Blu-ray disc.
 Somebody who bought a Blu-ray disc
 was playing the Blu-ray movie in Windows
 using the Power DVD Player,
 or I think it might have been Wind DVD, in fact.
 That guy took a snapshot of the memory image
 of the process, that is the Wind DVD process
 while it was playing the movie,
 presuming that if it was playing the movie,
 the key had to be in memory.
 And what Muselik's then did was he,
 well, so this guy packaged up the memory image
 and a couple chunks of the encrypted content,
 which are just files, after all, on his Blu-ray disc,
 sent them to Muselik 64.
 Muselik 64 did, first of all, his decryption,
 he's continued to work on this since we first
 talked about it around the turn of the year,
 around Christmas time, when this news came out
 that, quote, HD DVD had been cracked,
 which is not the case, but it is the case
 that it is possible to find the keys.
 So what Muselik's did was he did a,
 and the reason I'm bringing this up
 is it's some fun, true cryptotechnology
 that we've talked about in the past.
 He did a chosen plain text attack,
 meaning that the keys are 128 bits,
 so you cannot just try every possible key.
 That would be a brute force attack
 where you'd start with all zeros,
 and then all zeros and a one,
 all zeros and a one zero, all zeros and a one one,
 and you just go through every possibility.
 Well, 128 bit key, you cannot brute force
 in any reasonable amount of time
 as we've discussed in the past.
 But you don't have to try every possible key,
 you just have to try every possible candidate key,
 and the candidate keys are the ones that were in memory,
 that is, you don't know in the memory image.
 So you don't know where the key is?
 Yeah, but it doesn't matter because the memory image
 is much smaller than all the possible keys.
 So you just do a rolling slide through the memory.
 Yes, and it works, completely works.
 So all you do is you take the first four bytes
 and assume that they're the decryption key,
 try to decrypt a piece of encrypted content,
 and you know what the beginning of the encrypted content
 looks like because it's a standard MPEG frame.
 So if that doesn't work, you take bytes two, three, four,
 and five, then you take bytes three, four, five, and six,
 then four, five, six, and seven.
 You just slide along through memory,
 and our PCs are all fast enough
 than a very short time.
 Basically, you've searched the image of the software image
 of this thing playing for the key, you find it,
 and then you can encrypt all the content of the disk.
 Let's put it this way.
 It's probably faster to do that than it is
 for the DVD player to decrypt the AACS
 given the speed of your computer's processor.
 - Yes, and so here again, I think we're gonna be seeing
 these kinds of things now coming out from time to time
 about AACS, and what it really means is
 that software players are a huge vulnerability
 for this entire class of new encryption.
 If the software is decrypting and you have access
 to the software, then you can't protect it.
 I mean, and this is fundamentally what I keep saying
 is the reason this can't ever work the way
 the content providers want it to is the something
 in the user's control over which they have control
 is displaying one way or another an unencrypted result,
 which means all the information
 to do the decryption has to be right there
 in order for it to be delivered to the end user.
 - Sure, yeah, so that's the flaw.
 People often say, and I might even have a question
 in our questions today, but they often say,
 well, wait a minute, you say you can never crack
 an encrypted email, how come you can crack a DVD?
 That's precisely the reason.
 The key has to exist somewhere.
 - Yep. - Yeah, very, very, oh, amazing.
 Oh, just, I love that kind of stuff.
 - Isn't that a perfect hack?
 I mean, it's just a beautiful hack.
 - And obvious, obvious.
 Let's get to the question, shall we?
 - Yep.
 - It's a good dozen from our wonderful, intelligent,
 perspicacious listeners.
 Starting with Kenneth Can of Boston, Massachusetts,
 who writes, "Your recent podcasts have been very inspiring.
 "After testing my system using Securable,"
 yeah, from grc.com, absolutely free.
 "I had made sure that I had hardware virtualization
 "and hardware dep-enabled, however.
 "This seems to be only available on the Windows platform.
 "Many technologies discussed in the show
 "and some that I've researched on Wikipedia
 "are apparently Windows exclusive.
 "For instance, I've never heard of my Mac OS X
 "having this ability to magically randomize
 "this memory space every time it boots.
 "Does this mean Windows is way more advanced and secure
 "than its counterparts on Unix and Mac?"
 - Okay, it was an interesting question.
 First of all, it's worth noting
 that the address space layout randomization, ASLR,
 was first appeared on, and as most commonly known,
 over on open BSD Unix.
 So that notion of randomizing the location of things
 actually didn't come out on Windows first.
 It was in the Unix's first,
 and there actually are some utilities
 for even bringing this to versions of Windows.
 Two weeks from now, we're gonna talk about
 specific attacks on the hardware dep,
 on the data execution prevention stuff.
 So I'm gonna hold off a detailed discussion for then,
 for our podcast number 78 in two weeks.
 But it is not the case that Windows invented this,
 nor that this stuff is only available under Windows.
 And certainly, it's the kind of thing
 that will be quickly adopted by the open source community,
 'cause they're able to move so fast.
 - It's a good idea.
 Yeah, I don't think it's in OS X.
 Now, you would think that
 because OS X is running on Intel,
 that I know hardware virtualization is available,
 is hardware dep also available?
 - Well, it's certainly available to the operating system,
 and it turns out that Sun's Solaris
 running on risks chips has also always had this capability.
 So I mean, it has been around,
 it just hasn't been a mainstream technology
 that a lot of attention's been given to.
 And of course, because I believe it's so potent,
 I've done secureable and I'll be doing deputy afterwards
 in order to really help to raise awareness of this.
 - Yeah, yeah.
 Eric in Lansing, Michigan asks,
 when using XP Service Pack 2,
 would we be safe changing IE7's security
 from your recommended high to the default medium high?
 That is, that's how it comes out of the box.
 If our computer has DEP configured properly,
 in other words, would DEP prevent unsafe scripting?
 Oh, good question.
 - Yeah, and the great question.
 So first of all, to explain a little bit
 what Eric is saying is that he knows
 that I believe surfing is just not safe
 with scripting enabled.
 So my recommendation is that you convert your security,
 your normal internet zone security.
 If you're using IE to highest security,
 which disable scripting,
 and then you selectively trust those domains
 that you have decided to trust,
 and you only allow those to run scripting
 or to run scripting only when necessary
 as opposed to by default.
 So he's asking, if hardware DEP will prevent exploitation,
 does that make scripting completely safe?
 And unfortunately, it does not,
 because even if hardware DEP complete,
 we're able to completely prevent any kind of buffer
 over an attack, and that's a little bit of a gray area.
 It certainly is very strong in doing so.
 Scripting is still unsafe,
 because for example, what the hackers have now found out,
 and we saw this with a wind zip attack through IE,
 recently a couple months ago,
 they're able to invoke any active X control using IE,
 and then talk to it.
 So there might well be controls
 that you don't want Internet Explorer
 to have access to which scripting enables.
 So no, I would say you really don't want scripting,
 even if you knew that there would be no buffer overrun attacks
 on scriptable active X controls, it's still not safe.
 - It's not just buffer overruns that are the problem.
 - Right, it's scripting.
 Scripting is a bad thing to allow websites to do to you.
 - Right, although I was using the no script extension
 in Firefox, and I have been for since we talked
 about this last time, it's such a pain in the butt.
 - Yep, I know.
 - I finally just said, I'm taking my chances.
 I gave up, and so this is always the balance,
 isn't it, between convenience and security?
 - It really is.
 Now, of course, running in a virtual machine
 solves that problem too.
 If you're willing to like browse in a VM and shut it down
 and not save the things that it does,
 that's really safe too.
 - Moving along to Topher Slater of Portsmouth VA,
 he asks, how will retail respond when the key
 for my video card, or HD DVD has been revoked,
 and I wanna return it, he's talking about that
 revocation process where the motion picture association
 could say, oh, that video card doesn't do what we want it to do,
 we're not gonna allow it to play back DVD, HD DVDs,
 or other premium content.
 He said, or what happens if I buy a DVD
 and it will not play on my player?
 I have to open it in order to find out if it'll work.
 As of now, they won't take it back.
 Am I stuck with a $20 piece of plastic?
 - It's a really good question.
 I really have to believe that the threat of revocation
 is easily blown out of proportion.
 There, it's such a bad thing for players,
 commercial players to have their licenses revoked,
 that it's difficult for me to believe
 it would ever actually happen.
 So, I mean, I suppose, I mean, we know it's possible,
 we know the technology is there,
 we know that the content providers unequivocally
 have the capability of doing that.
 But I just have to wonder how big a problem it really is,
 and I don't wanna scare people by saying,
 oh my God, because it can happen, it will,
 it very well could never happen.
 - Yeah, you know, I think now having heard
 all the arguments pro and con,
 it would be such a costly, public relations wise thing
 for them to do, there's no way that's gonna happen.
 - It would be the end of the, it would be the end
 of the, not the movie industry, but of the MPAA for sure.
 - And, you know, to get back to Tophor's question,
 he's asking, would he be stuck with a worthless piece
 of plastic, meaning his DVD, certainly not.
 - Well, yeah, well, the DVD is still playable.
 It's not, you don't revoke the DVD,
 you revoke the player or the screen
 or something in the encryption channel.
 - Here's something that actually is a real issue,
 you can go out and buy an HD DVD,
 thinking you have an HD DVD player, which you might,
 but you don't have the proper,
 properly encrypted monitor.
 This happens a lot of time, right?
 - Yes, no. - Very good point.
 - Yeah, and you're gonna black monitor
 because your monitor either doesn't do HDMI
 or does HDMI, but not HDCP.
 That has been happening to people,
 and I guess that's up to the retailer,
 whether they'll take it or back or not.
 - Yep.
 - John Hutchinson of Claremont, Florida
 is worried about land-based viral spreading.
 Oh, that doesn't sound good.
 He says, "I have a few questions regarding Windows file sharing.
 I use Windows file sharing extensively inside my NAT router
 for things like backing up data between machines
 using an old command script I wrote years ago
 and for just moving files around between machines.
 John, I do exactly the same thing.
 I back up all the time over my network.
 Sometimes I map a drive, me too.
 Sometimes I just browse into my network places.
 It's very convenient.
 I tend to shy away from map drives.
 I suspect that might make it easier for malware or viruses.
 Should it get one on a machine or on my land to propagate?
 I suspect, however, this is not much of a deterrent
 as if I can browse my network places, so can malware.
 - Yep.
 - Secondly, I have nightmares of someone visiting
 with a laptop and loaded with bad things
 using my Wi-Fi to connect and having bad things
 propagate on my land that way.
 That does happen.
 That's why Zotob knocked out CNN about a year ago.
 So my question is, do you have any recommendations
 regarding how to make it harder for malware
 to spread to another machine on my network
 without sacrificing the convenience
 that file sharing provides?
 - No.
 (laughing)
 - Oh, come on, I do.
 The Zotob worm and all of these other worms
 aren't an issue if you turn on the Windows firewall
 on each system.
 - That why, exactly, I was, I was, I was,
 I was, you had a little suspicious.
 - See, I've been listening to you.
 I know the answer.
 - Well, although with Windows firewall up,
 then you still have a problem
 of making those machines connect.
 I mean, that is to say, you know,
 if you have map drives, malware can see map drives.
 So the only thing I can--
 - A map drive just means that that network drive
 has a letter, it's drive Z or whatever.
 - Right.
 - So you can open it as if it were a regular drive.
 - Exactly.
 I mean, it looks, it's very easy for something.
 - And now I wouldn't have to look on the network.
 - Yeah, I would just say, "Oh, wait a second.
 "I'm on the M drive."
 - Yep, you'll have to do no work in that case.
 The only thing I could suggest would be
 that if all of your machines are in the same work group
 and/or domain with the same username and password,
 then you're able to create a mapping
 without giving any credentials.
 However, if you deliberately had different usernames
 and passwords on the different machines,
 then you do have to create some credential.
 You have to give it the logon credentials
 of the target in order to create the mapping
 and no malware would know how to do that.
 So, again, it makes it less easy
 to do this kind of file sharing.
 You have to not leave static mappings up
 against the danger that something
 could get into your machine and spread.
 And it means, so that means you gotta bring them up
 and tear them down when you're not using them.
 And I mean, it's exactly what we always go into, Leo,
 like what you were talking about about
 not using no script under Firefox,
 'cause it's a pain to have to give sites permissions.
 Similarly, it's a pain not to be able
 to use static mappings, but if you want the security
 of not having that liability,
 it's gonna be a little bit of hassle.
 - Okay, it's a balancing act.
 - It's a balancing act, I use file mapping myself
 all over my network, and I'm just very careful
 not to let anything bad get in.
 - I guess my attitude is,
 if there's something bad on your network,
 you're dead anyway, doesn't matter if you file mapped
 or not. - Yeah.
 - And if somebody comes in and uses my network,
 I think, which does happen all the time,
 I think that's why it is important to have
 an individual firewall on each machine
 as opposed to the NAT router,
 'cause they're inside the NAT router.
 - Yes. - Very good point.
 Dave Gladstone, not far from Peter Goodman,
 he lives in Auckland, New Zealand,
 has been doing some thinking about Vista DRM.
 David says, "I've been listening to your discussions
 "of Vista DRM and revocation of drivers.
 "My understanding is that premium content
 "is not necessarily only available on HD, DVD,
 "or Blu-ray media.
 "If so, I was wondering if it would be possible
 "for a suitably crafty hacker to create a viral video
 "in both senses of the term that contained revocation lists
 "for a bunch of non-leaking drivers,
 "thus neutering the Vista platform."
 Wow, this guy's thinking real hard.
 - Yeah. - I am sure
 there must be some cryptographic safeguards to prevent this.
 Maybe this is a weak link.
 Is there a single private key that if compromised
 could bring down the whole pack of cards,
 tumbling down?
 That's interesting.
 - It's really interesting.
 - It's really interesting.
 - Somebody puts a video up on YouTube.
 The video has revocation lists in it.
 But wrong, you know, illegal revocation lists somehow.
 And while you watch that video,
 it's basically disabling the functionality
 of your video card.
 Is that possible?
 - Well, what prevents that is that there is
 a single central revocation list authority
 which is this, I believe it's the 5C authority,
 if that's the same as who runs AACS.
 But anyway, it is the AACS authority
 that maintains the master copy of the revocation list.
 All of the AACS licensed players
 have only the public key
 that allows them to decrypt the master revocation list.
 Nobody but the AACS has the private key
 which they use to encrypt the master revocation list.
 So it is not possible for someone to basically
 make up their own naughty revocation list
 and get any players that are operating correctly
 to decrypt it and believe it and apply it.
 - Makes sense.
 - So I mean, really, this whole,
 you know, the jump that we've had in crypto
 has been hugely leveraged by the AACS system
 using public key and symmetric key crypto
 in every way you could imagine.
 So that they've, I mean, they really have thought through
 all these scenarios and done everything
 that they can think of to prevent it from being abused.
 - The good old public key cryptography
 helps everybody.
 - S.N. listeners, Mr. and Mrs. Sven Thomas
 of Caronport, Saskatchewan, I've been wondering.
 I love reading these, I just love it.
 (laughing)
 It feels like old time radio, doesn't it?
 Mr. Answer, man.
 We have questions about the HTCP and Vista DRM in general
 as they pertain to a high-def home video
 and high-end hobbyist video content makers.
 While it's clear that HTCP affects only HD
 and premium HD content that is played back
 from a commercial HD DVD or Blu-ray disc,
 what about those of us who use, for instance,
 Sony camcorders, high-def camcorders
 and produce high-def content for ourselves?
 Is Vista and our future hardware,
 including that inside the camera,
 gonna cripple my personal HD content
 just 'cause it's not digitally signed,
 or will the camcorder apply a consumer type key
 that will allow any content we create
 to be played back in high-def?
 He's worried that all this high-def content protection
 is gonna impact his personal recordings.
 Right, and it absolutely will not
 because his personal recordings will not be encrypted.
 So just as Hollywood could make a DVD that you could copy,
 yes, you get to make a DVD or even high-def
 that you can give to your friends and everything.
 It's not, it doesn't impact you at all.
 Exactly, and it's high-def that's the issue.
 Exactly, and in fact, the same has always been true
 of regular old standard definition DVDs.
 If you create your own DVD, for example,
 from your home movies converting
 your home old eight-millimeter movies over to DVD,
 if some, you know, you have some service do that,
 they'll almost certainly be producing a non-encrypted DVD,
 which is then freely copyable.
 I mean, if it's not encrypted, in no way will anything
 prevent you from doing whatever it is you wanna do with it.
 Dee Smith of Leesburg VA says,
 I really enjoy your podcast seminars with Leo.
 So does Leo, by the way.
 However, the more I hear about Vista
 and the diabolical plans for hardware,
 digital rights management,
 the more I wanna find an alternative.
 Every two years or so, I build myself a new system.
 It's about time for a new one,
 and I'm anxious to avoid all the embedded complexities
 that Microsoft is forcing on the hardware, guys.
 All I want is a Core 2 Duo system
 that will perform well and do justice
 to my new 24-inch Dell monitor.
 I have no interest in HD media players.
 If necessary, I'll also stay with XP Pro
 for as long as I can,
 if that's what it takes to avoid Big Brother Bill.
 Any suggestions?
 - Well, I would suggest doing exactly what I'm doing.
 I've just put together a Big Core 2 Duo,
 actually mine is a Core 2 Quad.
 I named it Quadmire.
 (laughing)
 And I'm installing Windows XP Pro.
 That'll be my new platform, because, I mean,
 first of all, we know that I'm a Luddite
 in terms of staying like one major step behind.
 I'm still using Windows 2000 as my main workstation.
 And so I'll be moving to XP.
 I mean, for people who are really put off by Vista,
 who don't feel that they're getting any benefit
 from Vista above and beyond,
 well, enough benefit to tolerate this sense
 of losing control of the OS and so forth and so on,
 then, I mean, I would just say stay with XP.
 My sense is Microsoft may have a much harder time
 killing off XP than they want to.
 They've been forced in the past
 to continue supporting OS's or OS versions
 that they really wanted to shut down support for,
 but they weren't able to because of strong demand
 mostly from their enterprise customers.
 They're less concerned about individual end users,
 but the enterprise customers just said,
 no, we're not gonna be ready yet
 to move up to the next platform.
 And Microsoft's been forced to continue support.
 So I would be very surprised if Microsoft's able
 to kill off XP, given that the only choice
 is people going to Vista who just don't want to.
 I wonder if Microsoft would consider making
 kind of a stripped down version of,
 let's not say Vista, but they'll say of Windows
 that is for people who don't want all of this extra stuff.
 That's been discussed in our news groups
 and over on the news groups on GRC.
 The reason it can't be done is,
 which is unfortunate 'cause that'd be a tremendous solution.
 And in fact, maybe you were talking about it on Twitch
 'cause I feel like I've heard this kind of thing.
 I'll put it this way.
 - They do make a stripped down version
 for the China market of XP at the international markets.
 - And of course, we have the quote media center edition
 of Windows XP that would sort of lead you to believe,
 well, how about a really non-media centric version of Vista?
 The reason they can't is that this is all of this AACS
 and the so-called the protected video path
 and the protected audio path,
 they have hugely changed the fundamental kernel of Windows
 in order to embed this stuff really deeply into the OS.
 It's not something you can simply remove.
 I mean, it's really up in a pervasive change
 to the architecture of the OS,
 making it a solid DRM platform.
 - Well, and also from a political point of view,
 they don't wanna do this because really what you're seeing
 here is Microsoft's response to Hollywood's assertion
 that all a PC is a piracy device.
 And really, Hollywood would like to see all PCs neutered
 regardless of what you wanna do with it.
 They see them as every single one
 is a potential piracy device.
 They say, look, what happened to DVDs?
 That's how people use their PCs.
 So what Hollywood would like is for not one PC to be sold
 without this kind of copy protection on it.
 That's their goal.
 And I think to some degree, Microsoft's acquiescing
 by making Vista, and that's why this DRM is built
 into every copy of Vista, regardless of whether the machine
 comes with a high def player or not.
 - Yeah, well, we're gonna have next week
 when we run through Microsoft's blogged response,
 David Marsh's response.
 I think a lot of these issues get covered.
 - Oh, I can't wait, that's next week.
 Good, Microsoft's response, I can't wait to hear it.
 Rich in Highlands, Scotland, and I'm not gonna do the accent.
 - Thank you, maybe I will.
 - No, okay, wants to find a new free email service.
 He writes, I have a problem.
 On signing out of my Yahoo mail account,
 I was horrified to discover that at the bottom of the page,
 it said, quote, notice, we collect personal information
 on this site, end quote.
 I also noticed that after signing in,
 the URL changes from HTTPS, the secure HTTP,
 just a plain old HTTP colon slash slash.
 I thought it might be a time for a change from Yahoo.
 I've heard you talk positively about Gmail several times.
 However, I just discovered you have to be invited.
 Can you suggest somewhere I could make an email account
 that won't take my info and will stay secure?
 This is a real issue because I use my Yahoo mail
 for eBay, Amazon, et cetera,
 and I'm now really convinced I should switch.
 - And this is actually a question for you, Leo.
 I thought maybe you'd have a better sense than I do.
 I mean, I know about Gmail, I really like it.
 I would be surprised if this guy knows anyone
 who has sent him email, who has a Gmail account,
 he could simply write to them and say,
 "Hey, could you invite me to Gmail?"
 I think I've got a hundred--
 - Oh, I'll send him an invitation, yeah.
 - Yeah, exactly.
 - But--
 - And I don't know that Google is any better
 than Yahoo in this respect.
 - And of course it is frightening
 because we know that they're archiving everything
 forever.
 - Right, which is sort of frightening.
 - And we know that their business is advertising,
 just as Yahoo's is.
 So this Yahoo disclaimer,
 maybe not something that really terrified about,
 they collect information,
 every website collects a certain amount of information
 like your IP address automatically.
 So this may be a lawyer saying,
 we just better just claim this.
 I don't know that Yahoo is somehow trying
 to cross-reference your IP address
 with stuff you do online and so forth,
 but if they are, Google just as well might be.
 Let me, there are however, web-based mail services
 that are aggressively private.
 Probably the most so is Hushmail at hushmail.com.
 Hushmail is remarkable.
 First of all, it's PGP.
 All your mail is secured and if you,
 it's built in, it's automatic.
 They also are extremely privacy sensitive.
 So, and their business is not selling advertising,
 it's selling Hushmail.
 They do offer a free version,
 but they also offer some very advanced business solutions.
 - And there's also C-O-T-S-E, right?
 - C-O, I don't know that one.
 C-O-T-S-E dot C, I think.com.net, I'm not sure, but I think it's also a very alternate way of protecting your privacy online.
 Oh, that's interesting, I have not seen that one.
 Full service, privacy website, your shield from the internet.
 So, it sounds like they do proxy stuff as well.
 - I know that they have mail, so.
 - And another email service that is also aggressively,
 now I like Hushmail because it has built-in PGP,
 so there's a lot to be said for that.
 But spam-cop.net is an anti-spam site that's also aggressively privacy focused.
 So, another, and I actually have a spam-cop account as well.
 If you want to avoid spam or report spam, spam-cop is very useful there too.
 So, I'm going to have to take a look at C-O-T-S-E, that's interesting.
 But Hushmail, you know, Phil Zimmerman worked with them for a while, the creator of PGP.
 I think they're a very good group, and they have a lot of interesting features.
 But, you know, email is not private as we know.
 I mean, the only way it could be private is if you encrypt it.
 - Exactly.
 - Someone referring to themselves as anonymous sender says,
 "At work, we have a web applications which require testing from outside our firewall.
 Currently, we attempt to do this with an iMac running OS9, and a 56K modem."
 - Isn't that great?
 - Not the best solution, he says.
 "We're wondering if it would be possible to use the onion router
 from either a newer OS10 machine or a machine running XP to access our site
 as if we were outside the firewall."
 - Oh, I see it. - Brilliant.
 - I see it. - Brilliant.
 - Their web applications running on their site,
 and they want to test them as if they're a customer.
 - I get it. - Yes.
 If I understood your description of Tor, it sounds like using it would give us the same view of our site
 as we would see from outside the firewall because our incoming connection traffic would be coming from outside.
 Is this right? Any pitfalls I've missed?
 - It's brilliant. I think it's a perfect idea and solution.
 Yeah, it ought to work great.
 I mean, what they've been doing is they have a dial-up ISP somewhere.
 They've been using their 56K modem to dial into the ISP.
 - That's crazy. - And then surfing back to themselves from outside.
 But yes, the onion router, auto work, and because of the onion router,
 you're able to determine the complexity of the onion network.
 You could just tell it, we just want to use one,
 so you'd have very little latency and other problems associated with really long multi-hop onion routes.
 So that's a tremendous idea.
 - Microsoft does have some tools I seem to remember for doing this kind of thing,
 but that seems like an easier way, free, certainly.
 - Bob Suddeth of Dayton, Ohio.
 You were born in Dayton?
 - I was born in Dayton. - Wow.
 - Yeah. - From your hometown.
 How long did you stay in Dayton?
 - I wasn't even conscious. - I think I was there and gone.
 - Well, I guess I was barely conscious.
 My sister was born in Fairborn, and I'm two years older than she.
 So I guess, and I think my parents left where they actually was born.
 So I was two point something years old while I was in Ohio and I've never been back.
 - And then to Fairborn and then to California.
 Extrapolating from your discussion on VISTA and DRM,
 what's to keep companies from being extorted by hackers, for example?
 If you don't pay us X million dollars, we'll disable all your drivers everywhere.
 - Right, and that comes right back. - Yes, exactly.
 I put this in here because many people have worried about this and asked the question.
 So although we just read Bob's question, this is for everyone who asked,
 same story is nobody else will ever have, hopefully, or that would really be a problem,
 the public, sorry, the private keys for the public key crypto system, that the AACS guards,
 and as an absolute secret, so that there's no way for anyone to spoof any of this information
 anywhere along the chain of delivery from the AACS. It's really interesting.
 In fact, there's something we didn't talk about because it was sort of an unnecessary level of
 detail, but even the production of the HD or Blu-ray, that is an AACS content,
 the nobody knows anything more than they need to, the content provider is given some keys,
 the actual manufacturer is given a different set of keys, and then, of course, the rendering
 machine, the computer or driver display, they're giving their own keys, and it's all kind of fixed
 together in an interlocking way, but nobody has the ability to do anything wrong with the system
 because everything is protected from everything else. I mean, it's a beautifully engineered system,
 it's just a pain to have it. It wakes. Listener Ed from Philadelphia wonders,
 what are the security benefits of surfing the net under a user account rather than an administrative
 account? Well, I run all the time under user accounts on all my machines. I remember having
 heard of it several times on security now, I suppose, but would you remind me, and by the way,
 this is not just on Windows, it's on Mac, on any operating system. You don't have to always run
 as an administrator or root or super user, you could run as a normal user. Right, and in fact,
 of course, this was all created by Unix machines originally where the administrative account was
 called a root account, and then you would use, I mean, even servers would log in as non-root
 users. So if they were compromised, they wouldn't be able to do really damaging things to the system.
 So to answer its question, the idea is that when you're surfing as a user account, or that is to say,
 a limited user or a non-admin account, essentially, the programs you're using are running with your
 privileges. That is your log on privileges. If those are limited, then the programs actions
 on the OS are similarly limited. So for example, it's not able to launch code running in the kernel,
 because that's not a privilege that a limited user has, only an administrative user is able to do
 that. So the point is that the programs you run run with the same privileges that you do,
 and so they're limited just like you are from doing bad things to the system.
 There are some drawbacks to doing this because some programs don't work well if you're not a
 super user or a root or administrator. In fact, a lot of programs don't. I found it to be a little
 bit easier under Vista than it is, in fact, a lot easier than it is under XP. So they've fixed that
 problem from an operating system level. Yes. In fact, Vista, at one point, we will talk in depth
 about UAC, the user account control, because it's all users of Vista C is this box that's popping up
 all the time asking them if for permission to do things, it turns out there's much more going on
 under the hood. Yeah, it's some very potent, powerful and useful technology. So we'll certainly
 be doing an episode of security now to explain exactly what is user account control. Even if you
 run as administrator, you see that UAC box. If you're running as a limited user, however, you'll be
 asked for the administrative password, which I think is a little bit more secure. I really do.
 I agree. Yeah. And that's kind of how Apple does it as well. Even if you're running as an
 administrator, you have to give it the password to actually give it the root permissions to make
 the changes it needs. Yep. Jeff Smith, but nevertheless, on both Apple and Windows, I almost, except for
 XP, where it's just almost undoable. But in on Vista and OS 10, I'm always running as a limited
 user and it works great. I think my only regret is that in Vista, it doesn't kind of require you to
 set up a limited user account. When you set up an account, it's automatically an administrative
 account. Yeah, I think that's Microsoft again, recognizing that it would just be too hard to sell
 for most users. And so, but what they've done is, and this is what we will be talking about in detail,
 is even an administrative account, there's like a lack of automation for the things that can happen.
 You will, if anything tries to do things that modify the operating system, there'll be a dialogue
 that pops up. And this is not just a regular dialogue. There's all kinds of protection around
 that simple-looking UAC pop-up that you're clicking OK on so that if some malware got in your system
 and tried to make a modification behind your back, even as an administrator, it would not be able to
 do so without your permission. Jeff Smith of Alpina, Michigan, after listening to
 my KFI show, I guess, has a question. Yeah. Uh-oh. I wouldn't say something stupid. I learned about
 a very cool program. Thanks to Leo and his KFI podcast. It's called Cross Loop. It can be found
 across loop.com. It's a simple remote desktop. Oh, yeah, this is really cool. Simple remote desktop
 type application, which has been very helpful for me, the family computer geek. It's amazingly
 simple to set up and use even for the beginner computer user. However, since I'm a listener to
 use security now podcast, I'm curious if there are any security risks to myself or others while
 using this program. It's a remote access program. Mind you, it has never given me any reason to
 suspect that I'm just, you know, I'm a cautious person when it comes to my computer security,
 and I'm confident that you could give this program a thorough look at how it works.
 What it is, is it sort of a cross between VNC and Hamachi? And in fact, it uses VNC's open source.
 I think it's the code from the tight VNC version of the open source VNC. Then what
 they've done is they've added cross router penetration like Hamachi does so that essentially,
 you're able to give the app to another person. You have a copy. Instead of having this notion of
 separate client and server, which can be confusing, you've just got two different tabs. One of them
 is a host and one is a guest or however, I mean, the idea is it's for desktop sharing, very easy
 desktop sharing. Then you create a user accounts for yourself and it uses a 12 digit number to
 sort of sort of authenticate. So all of that's good. The only downside, and this is true of any
 service which is going to do that router penetration for you like Hamachi or like this cross loop is
 you are inherently trusting that external third party not to mess with you, not to play any games
 because both users behind their routers are contacting that third party server. That's the thing
 which is negotiating their subsequent direct point to point connection between them. And that's how
 the nap penetration works as we've discussed in the past. So there again, he has no reason to
 mistrust the cross loop guys. We have no reason to mistrust them. I mean, I talked to, as you
 remember, Alex Pankratov, the original author of Hamachi and was very convinced that he was a good
 guy. But I, I like the idea of having complete control myself. And so I shy away a little bit
 from I mean, I'm just, it just anyone should be aware that the involvement of a third party
 does give them the ability if they wanted to to play games, which is not to say they ever would
 or or are, but that's a factor. We just don't know who they are. And so,
 and again, it's, it's a trade off that you make in a typical security trade off. If I don't want
 the responsibility for needing to configure my net router to, for example, doing a static port
 mapping into the router in order to get to my computer from the outside, if I don't want that
 responsibility, then I'm going to trade that for some little bit of security, probably not enough
 to worry about. Right. Right. Steve, we've completed 12 questions and 12 answers. Unbelievable.
 And since this is our 15th episode, that means you've actually done 180.
 And we got many more. When I, when I checked my mail, I had 600 postings from people came down.
 So we won't be running out of questions anytime soon. We're glad to get the questions. Can you
 tell people once again how you find the questions? Yeah. We have a form. Right. We have a form at
 the bottom of the security now page. So just go to grc.com/securitynow. The page will come up and just hit
 end on your keyboard or scroll to the bottom. There's a form there. People can be anonymous if
 they choose or, well, in fact, if they want to get their questions read on the air, they need to
 use their name and tell us where they are, not that we want to, you know, be a force people to be
 not anonymous. But we'd like to be able to say, Hey, Jeff's miss of, you know, Alpina, Michigan, ask
 the following question. It's just more personal and more fun for us. So, so send a question to me
 and I'll get it. And perhaps we'll read it. And while you're at grc.com, don't forget to
 secureable Steve's new free security application along with dozens of other security applications,
 including the great shields up grc.com is a place to go. And you know, the one thing that's not free
 on grc is the thing that is the most valuable, the great spin right program, Steve's bread and butter
 for the last decade or so. It is the ultimate disc recovery utility. And by the way, or disc
 maintenance utility, I run it regularly on all my discs to catch problems before they happen. And
 if something happens to corrupt your disc or bad sectors, spin right, it can almost always
 recover those bad sectors, recover that data and get your back on your feet. It's really a great
 program. Well, and you know, we're here for people too. I received a an interesting note from someone
 over Christmas. The subject was redownload spin right from remote location. And he first wrote to
 our sales address, which Sue monitors even through the holidays. And actually, this was on the 23rd.
 So, you know, not not on Christmas Eve, but the day before. And he asked if he said, just wanted
 to say thanks so much. Oh, he when he first wrote, he said, I purchased spin right a while back. I'm
 at my mom's for Christmas trying to troubleshoot what looks like a hard drive problem on her computer.
 My spin right and license info is at home. Yep. Is it possible for you to email me creds to download
 a copy to try to run on her hard drive? And then he says, I think I registered either under blah,
 blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. You know, his two email addresses that he had. If you can send
 information to either of those addresses, I would be able to get them from here. Many thanks and
 have a wonderful holiday. So, Sue, got his mail, looked him up in our e-commerce system, which,
 you know, I wrote from scratch and it has all these capabilities. So, she, she, she found him,
 sent his transaction code, which he didn't have. And the transaction code allows any of our spin
 right owners to download spin right from anywhere they happen to be. So, for example, if he had it
 in his wallet, he could have used that in order to grab a copy. Keep your code with you all at all
 times. Well, you just never know when your mom's computer is going to crash out. That's right.
 So, what was my mom's computer next week? So, I'm bringing my code with me.
 What was really cool was he then followed up that letter and he said, just wanted to say,
 thanks so much. I got the ISO, burned to CD, ran spin right, and now mom's PC seems to be running
 just fine. That's great. He said, there'd been a failure in a Windows component related to Windows
 Explorer. So, after boot, things just pretty much stopped working. He said, after spin right,
 it's all good. She's thrilled to have her email and web back. So, you provided her the best Christmas
 present this year. See, that's really interesting. Hard drive failure, you know, these big hard drives
 now are so huge. It can happen at any time. And I can give you all these weird symptoms that I,
 you know, I answer all the time on the radio show. It's funny. I was doing some research on Seagate's
 site because I'm setting my new system up with serial ATA drives. I was talking to Mark Thompson,
 who was commenting, they've got so many systems, they've got hard drive problems all the time.
 And he said, it's mostly the newer disks. When I was on Seagate's site, I was a little surprised
 by their reliability claim. This is the spec sheet. It was at 7200.9, a Barracuda brand new Barracuda
 S-A-T-A 7200.9 drive. They were saying they had 0.34% failure per year. I don't go, wait a minute,
 0.34% failure per year. That's one in 300. Whoa. Because it's a, it's a third one in 300 drives
 will fail per year. That's high. It's high, Leo. Think of how many millions of drives they sell.
 Now I know why I'm getting so many testimonials for Spinrite. Yeah, I mean, one in 300 are going to
 die per year. And even, and even in this case, this wasn't even a drive failure. This wouldn't even
 have counted there. This is just some error on the data. So yeah, it must be, you know, even more,
 you know, one in a hundred. I was really surprised. Apparently, the reliability is beginning to come
 down. As you say, when you put, you know, a terabyte of data, you know, eight terabytes on a drive,
 which, which drives are now up to, how do you, how do you get them all back? Yeah.
 Well, grc.com, that's the place to get the answer to that question. I know how to get them back. Spin
rite. By the way, I want to thank our sponsor, a Staro Corporation, makers of the Staro Security
 Gateway. They're just great folks. We unfortunately had pre-taped our show last week. So I couldn't
 mention they had an event in Toronto last, actually it was this week. And I wasn't able to give us,
 give them a plug, unfortunately, because we had pre-taped. But I'll mention future events. It's
 actually great. They do these events where you can go and you could try it out. You could see it at
 work. And the Staro Security Gateway is a really, really remarkable device. In fact, they wanted
 me to mention V7. This is a new technology they're launching this month. You may not know about this.
 I will, I'll get more details on it from the folks. But it's, it's an email encryption. We're
 actually just a basic encryption technology that they're building into this ASG. Just what, you
 know, that's the beauty of it. It's an open source platform. It's, it's like, it looks about the
 size of a router, the Staro Security Gateway. It's running open source Linux. But because it's,
 it's such a powerful platform. They can add these plugins that has VPN capabilities and Trojan
 protection, content filtering, anti spam, industrial strength firewall. It's very high performance.
 Look, the best thing to do is just try it free. And, you know, it's beautiful. Because sometimes
 you'll just get new features. They just download into the firewall, contact a Staro at ASTRO.com.
 Shouldn't call it a firewall. It's a security appliance. Or call it a Staro at 877, the number
 for a Staro ASTRO. And they will schedule a free trial of the Staro Security Gateway
 appliance in your business. And we thank a Staro for the supporting
 security now. And I'm sorry. I didn't get to mention that event. I feel bad about that.
 It was, it was actually, as we record this is today, it was last night in a Toronto.
 So that Lynch digital media. Oh, well, next time. Steve, I think we have run out of time.
 We got another good hour. And then some. I will see you next week. I will,
 let's see, next week I'll be in Providence visiting my mom. I'll probably be calling
 you for a spin right serial number. We got them. I'll talk to you then. Thanks, Steve. Thanks,
 later. Security now.
