 "That casts you love from people you trust."
 "This is Twit."
 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by AOL Radio at aol.com/podcasting.
 This is Security Now as Steve Gibson, Episode 72 for December 28, 2006.
 Your questions, Steve's answers number 14.
 Security Now is brought to you by Astaro, makers of the Astaro Security Gateway, on the web
 at www.astar.com and by Dell for this week's specials visit twit.tv/dell.
 There is no rest for the secure conscious, security conscious, and that's Steve Gibson.
 Even though here we are just a few days after Christmas, a few days before New Year's, the
 week that almost everybody in the world takes off, much of Twitter is taken off.
 No Steve says we must soldier on a security now every week whether you want one or not.
 Hey Steve Gibson, whether they want one or not, you're getting it.
 Okay, well I've got to tell you Leo, I don't know what it was about the last Q&A, but I've
 never had such positive feedback from people.
 I think it was a, I mean, now I'm a little nervous about, oh my God, I'm not, but wonder
 if this Q&A will be as good as the last one because possibly is good.
 People loved the mixture of questions, they were like giving me credit with selecting
 them.
 It's like, well, I just select them like I always do, I don't know why those ones turned
 out so good.
 Actually, this time we've got a bunch of tour related stuff, so there won't be quite the
 diversity that we had last time.
 I think that's one thing people liked was that there was just a really wide ranging mix
 of questions.
 I think they also liked that you and I just got to hung out and took our time.
 It was a 97 minute episode.
 It was the longest podcast I've ever done as well.
 But you know, see people, you know, they do, they love what you're doing and so I don't
 think it's a, you know, the nice thing about a podcast, if it's too long, just pause it
 or give up or whatever.
 Well, and I do like the, I do like that the way the Q&A's break these episodes for, you
 know, I mean, we have some that are highly topical focused on just one thing and I think
 that's good.
 I mean, we've had a, I got a lot of people who said, my God, I can't believe you explain
 Tor with no diagrams or pictures or anything, you know, just listening, you know, they were
 under, able to understand the onion and which I thought was really, it was really fun.
 So, yeah, I mean, so, so certainly there's a place for that kind of focus.
 And I think our Q&A's do a really nice job of, you know, mixing that up and allowing
 people, first of all, to feedback, I do want to remind people that the bottom of the security
 now page at grc.com, if you just grc.com/securitynow, the bottom of that page is where there's a form
 that anyone can use, giving their name and location or not, leave it anonymous in the
 interest of anonymity, in order to submit questions, which I receive, the server sends
 it to me as email, they pile up and then I go through them and pull questions for our
 Q&A.
 Good.
 And we've got a lot of good ones.
 So, I do want to mention that Spinrite is Steve's bread and butter, and we do always
 want to give it a little bit of a plug.
 Not only because it's how Steve makes his living, but frankly, because it is a must-have utility.
 If you've got hard drives, it's really useful for people who kind of are the kind of the
 go-to guys for your friends and family, maybe your coworkers when there's problems with
 the computer.
 I always have a copy of Spinrite in my possession for those, you know, those emergency house
 calls.
 It is the ultimate drive, recovery, and maintenance utility.
 You work with all kinds of drives.
 You can even...
 I didn't know this, but somebody said to me, "I know it said it works with external drives,
 too."
 Yeah, in fact, I've got a couple pieces of email from people who have USB drives that
 it fixed.
 That's neat.
 I didn't know that.
 I thought that you wouldn't be able to get access, low level, enough access to the drive.
 It's very true.
 I don't have as low a level access to the drive through a USB or Firewire interface.
 And so, you know, the best way is if people can remove the drive from the case and just
 temporarily attach it to the motherboard, there I have a really intimate connection.
 Spinrite is not only faster, but it does have access then to much more about what's going
 on in the drive.
 But, many times that's not possible, so Spinrite will still do the best job it can.
 Right.
 Right.
 It's funny.
 Here we are between Christmas and New Year's, and, you know, I've been sharing over the
 last weeks, some of the email that we receive about, you know, Spinrite success stories,
 I thought, since this is sort of a special holiday episode, I would share a wacky one
 that I--
 Okay.
 --that I received.
 It's literally the subject of this email.
 I just recently received this.
 It was, "Steve, your Spinrite software got me fired."
 Uh-oh.
 True story.
 The guy says, "Haven, Haven, True Story."
 And at first, I was a little confused, and I realized this person--I don't see his name
 here--but it's this person who is recounting a Spinrite 2 adventure he had, so that would
 make it about--
 A long time ago.
 About 15 years ago, or yeah.
 Anyway, he says, "This happened in Rockville, Maryland.
 As a service tech in the MFM RLL days," so, of course, that's modified frequency modulation
 and run-length limited are those acronyms.
 I remember those.
 Yeah.
 I remember those.
 Yeah.
 And he says, "I was called to an old people's community organization.
 Their disc needed a low-level format.
 The nice old lady said, 'Thank God you're here.'"
 And actually, this guy writes really well, which is what the other reason I wanted to
 share.
 He says, "Thank God you're here, begging me to fix her computer and told me of all the
 sad, terrible things that would happen to the old people if their data were lost.
 Being newly hired by the service company, I was accompanied by a senior tech from the
 same outfit.
 He was happy I recognized that the drive needed a low-level reformat.
 I got out my trusty personal copy of Spinrite 2.
 The other tech had never heard of non-destructive low-level formatting.
 See, this reads the track before reformatting it, then it formats the track instead of writing
 zeroes as sector data, it uses the original data so they don't lose any, isn't that cool?
 It is cool.
 That was always the best thing about Spinrite.
 It was very cool.
 And so he says, isn't that cool?
 He says, "wide-eyed and innocent."
 Okay.
 Then the other guy, the senior tech says, "But won't that take twice as long?"
 And he says, "I looked at the old lady wringing her hands, hopefully, on the other side of
 the room.
 She couldn't hear us.
 It will take 20 minutes instead of 10, but we'll save their data."
 I assumed it was a no-brainer.
 "No," he said, "this is a service contract."
 "So what?"
 I asked.
 "So we already have their money, just format their drive, and we can build that 10 minutes
 at the next job.
 We're not a charity organization."
 Oh.
 So this guy writes, "I felt like I was in the Twilight Zone.
 I thought about what to say, I thought about my professors at college, and how much I
 missed them."
 Yes.
 And he says, "So our guy says, 'No, I can't do that,' I said, and continued with Spinrite.
 It took 22 minutes."
 It took 22 minutes.
 Good for him.
 He says, "After rebooting, the system was back up, and the old lady was ecstatic.
 What's your name, young man?"
 She asked, "David, God bless you, David."
 She said, "Now get this, afterward, out in the parking lot, we almost got into a fist
 fight over it, but agreed to take it to the company president.
 The president agreed with the senior tech and fired me on the spot."
 Unbelievable.
 There was no other reason, just this, as I left the other tech smiled smugly.
 Wow.
 What a pressing story.
 Spinrite.
 Got him fired.
 Oh my god, and you know, I have a feeling that same kind of stupid shenanigans still
 goes on.
 Well, it's funny, because I read this prior to meeting with you last week, Leo, in Toronto,
 I met with the Nerds on site guys and hung out with them for a couple hours, and I shared
 this story with them.
 I didn't have it in front of me, but I remembered it, because I had, you know, I were able to
 put it together and posted it, and I read it, I told them the story, and they said, "Who
 is that guy?
 Will I hire him?"
 Hey, now I like Nerds on site.
 I like, they're going to buy some ads on Twitch, so I like them even more, but that's
 good to know, and that's the kind of thing I want to hear.
 You know, I don't want to recommend a company that's going to look more toward the billable
 hours than toward the customer's satisfaction.
 I mean, that's a short-sighted way of doing business.
 And wouldn't just reformatting the drive be faster than performing data recovery?
 I'm willing to bet that company is out of business and long out of business.
 That is terrible.
 We can only come.
 We can hope.
 Cool.
 You know what I mentioned, by the way, that, and I forgot to mention this last week, so
 I mentioned it again, you know, Scott Eves, right?
 Sure.
 They do great geekware.
 They call it technology-enabled clothing with lots of pockets and places to run wires
 for your, they call it personal area, network for your headphones or chargers or whatever.
 They're just really great jackets, pants, shirts and hats, and they've offered us a holiday
 Twitter code.
 Now, I know it's after Christmas, but a lot of times people buy this stuff just for themselves.
 So we'll put a link in the show notes.
 But if you go to, um, Scott Eves, and you buy anything, use the coupon code TWIT that'll
 save you 20% off, I think you're 25% off the, uh, cost, just a little gift from us and Scott
 Eves to our, uh, our listeners.
 Now shall we go on with the question Q and A number 14 number 14, starting with Dennis
 from Atlanta, Georgia.
 So he says, I listened to episode 69 about the social implications of internet anonymity.
 And I listened to episode 70 about achieving internet anonymity using Tor then the next
 episode of numbers on CBS is about a vigilante.
 Wow.
 This is on CBS using onion router networks to anonymously stock and kill pedophiles seems
 like more than a coincidence.
 It's funny.
 I got so many of these notes that I thought, okay, I just have to mention this.
 It, I mean, one guy said he was watching, he was watching numbers on CBS just after having
 listened to our episode number 70 about the network.
 And he say, and he's saying to himself, please mention onion routing.
 Please mention your routing.
 And they did.
 That's so weird.
 They referred to it by name as an, as he's using onion routing.
 And apparently I didn't see the episode, but, but they use the analogy of putting envelopes
 inside of envelopes and then sending them.
 And he said, of course that analogy only holds in the onion routing context.
 So long as only the person to whom the envelope is addressed is able to open that envelope.
 And he said, wouldn't that be nice if they, if, you know, paper mail actually worked that
 way?
 But it was just, so for, for, for all those people who wrote, it was a bizarre coincidence.
 Wow.
 We have nothing to do with the scheduling of, of programming on, on CBS or anywhere.
 No.
 In fact, they must have written that episode months before we did anything on it.
 But I think what's interesting is that this kind of advanced technology is now sneaking
 into mainstream programming, which just shows that people are more aware.
 And that mainstream media folks realize it's not the kiss of death to talk about technology.
 I like it.
 Yeah.
 I like it.
 Andy listening from Spain writes, this may seem a bit morbid, but I'd love to you and
 Leo to discuss the handling of private encrypted data passwords and computer based private
 information in the event of our death.
 I mean, today while alive, I don't want to give my sensitive stuff or passwords to anyone,
 including my wife, but when I eventually die, I become very ill, I need to make sure that
 my family has access.
 This makes a lot of sense.
 Actually, doesn't that?
 Yes.
 They're not stranded economically or practically also to make sure they can wind up and close
 down my company in a safe and good way.
 I've often wondered about this.
 My stuff isn't even that encrypted, but I know my wife wouldn't be able to figure it
 out to save her life.
 If I have true cryptid all of my data, have complex, unguessable password schemes and
 so forth, how do I unwind all of that for the benefit of other people I care about in my
 life?
 Isn't that a great question?
 I mean, I thought that really was.
 Here we are all, we spent 72 weeks now talking about privacy and encryption and uncrackable
 passwords and not writing them down and coming up with personal password algorithms and all
 this.
 But imagine if any of us or our listeners who were actually using these sorts of approaches,
 suddenly, well, I mean, God forbid, you know, something happened to them.
 They were critically ill or they passed away.
 Here's the whole life that they've been deliberately working to keep out of the hands of bad guys.
 Well, inadvertently, it's now out of the hands of good guys.
 I mean, they're family, they're friends, people whom they might wish access to this.
 It's just, it's no longer available.
 Yeah.
 So I don't have an answer, but I loved the question.
 I mean, true crypt allows, for instance, your password to be stored in the image file, let's
 say, right?
 And you can use that to decrypt.
 Well, if yes, if we wanted to provide a solution, it would be that you would have any kind
 of, and I mean, true crypt might be overkill.
 There are very nice little pieces of freeware where you can just take like a text file and
 it will run it through symmetric encryption and just scramble it, you know, with full crypto
 strength.
 Yeah.
 So what you could do would be in a, you know, give to your attorney who has your will or
 in a, in a, in a safety deposit box, something where access will be granted in the event of
 something bad happening to you without your taking any action.
 And certainly, you know, this is certainly not something that somebody who's 15 and listening
 to this is even thinking about is a forever, but you know, you and I are thinking about
 it.
 Exactly.
 You know, so, you know, anybody who's, who's preparing a will, who has a will, who's,
 who's taken actions about what would happen in the event of their death.
 Something to really think about is, is there any information?
 Are there passwords to your email accounts, passwords to your drives, to your data?
 Here's what I'm thinking.
 And, and it's your online financial account.
 Oh, yeah.
 And I've already done that.
 Here's what I'm thinking is that you separate the information out.
 So one of the things true crypt lets you do is have an image file and a password.
 You need both, right?
 Maybe give the attorney the password, maybe even put it in your will and store the image
 file in a safety deposit box, separate the two, to be opened on your death or whatever.
 And that way, go ahead.
 Yeah.
 My, my only concern with that is that from a practical standpoint, this might be a file
 you want to be modifying from time to time, have, have easy access to the, the beauty of
 it being encrypted is that no, I mean, no, no, you don't even need true, true crypt again.
 I mean, that's in fact, you know, some, some little simple encryption program that would
 allow you to easily decrypt it, update passwords, account information and so forth.
 Basically, it would be your whole life, everything in, you know, all the, all the logon, user
 names and IDs and passwords, everything you'd want someone to access if you were unable
 to.
 And then you, you, you, you lock it up again, you just re-encrypt it and, and you know what
 the password is.
 It's, it's also stored somewhere like your attorney has it or in a safety deposit box
 so that if something happened, the, the directions there would be turn on my computer, run this
 program.
 And again, true crypt can be a little confusing.
 I mean, it is a techie tool.
 So I was thinking in terms of a simple little simple encryption utility that they will just
 decrypt a single file.
 And so the instructions could be run this program, enter this password.
 Here's everything you need to know about, you know, accessing my personal private financial
 life that I, that I want you to have access to.
 Right.
 Right.
 Jared Burford, a security now listener and a spin right user in Western Australia asks
 on my laptop, my Hitachi 100 gig hard drive, which is a 7200 RPM hard drive gets too hot
 when spin right is in operation at times it reports spin right cannot continue due to
 overheating problems, proceed at your own risk.
 I took this seriously.
 However, at other times when ambient temperature outside is cold, like when the air conditioning
 is on, it stays around 50 degrees centigrade and all is okay.
 I've read various posts and come to the conclusion, drive temps vary with every drive depending
 on size, capacity, et cetera.
 So my question is 50 degrees centigrade too high for a laptop drive to function.
 It's interesting.
 Spin right six is the first version of spin right where I made spin right aware of smart
 stuff and one of the parameters that the, that the drive makes the most drives make available.
 I think probably all of them being produced now is their current operating temperature.
 What we learned during the development of spin right and again, I had my fantastic group
 in the news groups.
 We created a spin right dev news group where we all hung out and I got a ton of testers.
 It turns out that that laptops to a much greater degree than desktop systems really have a
 problem with heat.
 Yeah.
 They've got nowhere to dissipate it.
 Well, that's the problem is that it's the, there is no space and they're, you know, super
 small enclosure and I mean, you know, any user of a modern laptop knows that, I mean,
 I'm impressed with battery technology because these things are generating an amazing amount
 of heat.
 I mean, literally you burn your lap.
 There are even some things for like keeping your lap cool while your laptop is on top
 of them because it generates such a problem.
 Anyway, what we learned was that that because spin right is using the drive continuously,
 that is it's moving through the drive and basically seeking is what generates a lot
 of heat because you are, you are accelerating and decelerating the head very quickly.
 Well, that requires a lot of energy as anyone knows from their old days in physics is in
 order to, to accelerate something you need to apply a force and then to decelerate it,
 you need to apply the reverse force.
 So that ends up generating heat in the drive.
 So what spin right does is if it sees that the, the, the drive, whether it's in your laptop
 or your, your desktop is becoming too hot.
 It will bring up a dialogue box and say, Hey, just want to let you know, spin right is going
 to stop now until things cool off.
 You can, you can.
 So that's a spin right error.
 Yes.
 Well, not, not an error.
 It's like a spin right.
 Notification, yes.
 And so people can let things cool off then, then proceed.
 I really like it though, because many people have, have increased the size of their hard
 drives, even in their desktop machines and they, they, they didn't take account of the
 fact that now that they're running a 7200 RPM drive, it is drawing more power.
 It's generating more heat and their system may not be designed to just move cold air
 through fast enough to keep the drive cold.
 The reason this is important is the number one killer of hard drives is over temperature.
 It is the number one cause of hard, a premature hard drive failure is drives running too hot
 and there's no one's ever been keeping an eye on them.
 So is it a degree Celsius too hot?
 No, it's not at all.
 Really?
 No, it's not.
 And so I think, I think it's been right limited at 75 if I remember what I did was I looked
 at all the manufacturer's specs in the industry and I was surprised they were all in pretty
 much uniform agreement about, you know, the maximum operating temperature of the drive.
 And I just have spin right, let people know if they're exceeding that.
 So Damon in Oklahoma writes a previous Q&A topic of spam left me wanting more.
 Please talk more about what male servers do to limit spam, something to consider talking
 about in relation to these SPF records, the, what we talked about that a little bit, the
 authentication records is now ISPs are now filtering SMPT, SMTP traffic.
 For example, create an SPF record for domain.com that states that SMTP traffic.
 That's the mail protocol, a sending mail protocol comes from, you know, 192.1.1, whatever,
 or mail dot domain dot com.
 This would work fine as long as your ISP allowed you to send mail over port 25 to your server.
 Sure you could add the ISP's SMTP to the allowed list.
 But what happens when you are more importantly, you're less savvy users go on the road.
 You can't possibly add each mail record for all the potential addresses, you know, the
 IP protocols that are blocking SMTP traffic or all the ISPs, nor would you want to, doesn't
 this make the SPF idea almost useless.
 I'm not really following this, Steve, you'll have to explain.
 Super show.
 I'll buy all the deals from your link.
 Thank you.
 I'll add cash to the donation bucket.
 Thank you.
 Whatever.
 Keep them coming.
 Do both.
 Thank you.
 Okay.
 So yes, this is an interesting question.
 I don't understand it all.
 So you better explain it.
 It's a perfect place for us to talk about what ISPs are doing about spam.
 We talked about SPF, the sender provider.
 Now I have an acronym loss.
 I'll Google it while you talk.
 That's funny.
 I'm just blanking on that framework.
 I want to say framework.
 Send or something framework.
 Policy framework.
 That's yes.
 Yes.
 And it's funny, too, because they change what the acronym stands for several times.
 It's gone through a bunch of mutations, which, you know, left everybody confused.
 So, okay.
 But it's a very cool concept.
 The idea is that we understand we've talked extensively in the past about DNS where anyone
 is able to say to make a DNS query saying, what is the IP of this domain?
 Well, what SPF does is it adds another type of query that you can ask for.
 For example, there are that you can ask for a so-called MX query and ask, what is the
 mail server for this domain?
 What SPF does is adds a query that says, what are the allowed IPs or machine names for that
 you will, that you authorize as originating mail from your domain?
 So for example, GRC does have an SPF record.
 So when my mail server sends something to somebody else's mail server, say I'm sending
 a mail to Google, Google has a TCP connection to me.
 So it knows my IP address because we know TCP connections cannot be spoofed.
 They have to be a real IP address.
 It makes a DNS query saying to, it notices the mail is apparently coming from GRC.com.
 It makes a query of GRC.com saying, asking for the SPF record, which is a text record
 in DNS with a specified format.
 The DNS server returns a text record in there is my specification that is, I put this in
 my own in GRC's DNS saying, email from GRC will only come from this one IP.
 And so what happens is, it allows the recipient to authenticate the identity of the server.
 That is, if anybody else is spoofing GRC, some other non-GRC server is trying to send
 mail to Google mail saying, hey, this is from, you know, Steve at GRC.com.
 And then what happens is Gmail asks GRC, could this be a valid IP for mail from GRC?
 Well, since I control my own mail servers, I know my IPs, that's what's in the DNS record.
 So it's, I mean, it is a really cool anti-spam feature.
 Here's the problem.
 The problem is, there are a couple, first of all, and we got hit by this actually just
 a couple of days ago, Greg, my tech support guy sent me a piece of email that he had been
 unable to send to somebody else.
 The SPF system only works for point to point connections, that is, it makes sense.
 It does.
 It does.
 Because any relay, relays, of course, have traditionally been, well, and relays have
 been a huge spam problem, you know, so-called open relays where anyone exists.
 But exactly where anyone is able to drop email on an arbitrary server and it will forward
 it on their behalf.
 Well, that's called an open relay, which is what spammers have traditionally used.
 So notice in my model, it had to be a direct connection, a single TCP connection between
 my server and Google mail in order for Google to trust that this mail was really coming
 from me.
 So, Greg happened to send email to someone who, for whatever reason, that email server
 relayed it to a third.
 That third server used SPF to verify that relaying server was authenticated by GRC and, of course,
 it was not.
 So it bounced the mail back to Greg saying, "This is an unauthorized server."
 Greg tried it a few times, sent the mail to me saying, "What's going on?"
 And I said, "Well, this is typical.
 This is what you have when security tightens things up.
 You have problems."
 Like last week, Leo, we were talking about all of the controversy of digitally signing
 device drivers.
 Well, yes, more security, but yes, it's got some problems.
 So what's the solution for Greg?
 Well, there is no solution.
 SPF has this problem.
 It will not tolerate the use of relays because relays are so prone to abuse.
 Basically, we were unable to send email to this guy whose email was configured with
 an intermediary server.
 You could have sent it directly from GRC.
 Right?
 No.
 No, because of the way he was configured.
 Yes, at his end, he was configured with a relay.
 And so it's not just us, but anyone who is using SPF, and there are hundreds of thousands
 of servers now, anyone who is broadcasting these records, making these records available
 through DNS, they're not going to be able to get mail to that guy.
 So ultimately, he'll figure out, "Gee, no, I'm not hearing from people that I sent email."
 And is it his internet service provider that's caused this, or is he doing it?
 I didn't pursue it beyond seeing what the problem was, but it was very clear that there
 was a relay.
 So something's going on.
 And now, the related problem is another problem that Greg has had, because Greg sometimes
 travels around and wants to keep doing security now.
 I'm security now.
 Spinrite support is what I pay him for.
 He does tech support for Spinrite.
 And sometimes he's out on the road.
 Well, he wants to be able to send and receive GRC mail.
 The problem is that his ISP is blocking port 25, and many ISPs are now because this is
 what Trojans are getting compromised.
 We've talked about this a lot.
 Trojans machines are generating a ton of spam.
 They're doing so by using port 25 outbound.
 They set up their own servers on this zombie machine.
 Essentially, and what an SMTP server does is it used port 25 outbound to another server,
 SMTP servers port 25 in order to transfer the mail.
 So ISPs are starting to block, and many of them now do, block port 25.
 You are able to connect to their SMTP server.
 So for example, my cable modem has me use smtp.west.cox.net as my SMTP server that Cox provides.
 So I'm able to send mail to them, but I'm not able to send mail to another SMTP server.
 But Greg is unable to send email as being from GRC through his Cox server because then
 that creates a relay.
 Again, now there's not a misconfigured relay.
 The only way he can send port 25 email is sending it to Cox, but when he deposits mail
 from GRC, you know, from his GRC identity within his ISP, he puts it on their server.
 They try to send it somewhere.
 Now it's being relayed that the recipient checks with GRC and sees that it's not valid.
 That's the same address.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Now what I could do is not what I did, but I'll present this because I know that lots
 of people are having problems like this.
 I could add Greg's ISP's server to the list of authenticated sources from GRC mail.
 It would open up a tiny vulnerability because then anybody using Greg's ISP's server could
 spoof email from GRC, but the likelihood of that is very low.
 Anyway, it's not what I did.
 What I did was because I'm controlling our email, I just made up another port.
 We chose some random port up in high port land and I have, it's another entry to our
 email server.
 So Greg has configured his Eudora client, which we're all still using.
 He configured Eudora not to send email on port 25 to send it on, you know, XYZ, whatever
 port we chose.
 And so his ISP is not blocking that.
 So mail from Greg@GRC.com, it goes directly to our server, which then doesn't have this
 relay problem.
 So it is a tricky, it was a, you can see it was a complex question and it's not a simple
 answer, but it is doing, it is going a long way to solve this problem of finally creating
 some authenticatability in the email system.
 Okay.
 Brian Bynoff of San Diego, California is wondering about onions, more tour with the
 tour network.
 Can't the various routers know who sent them the onion package?
 In other words, wouldn't it be possible to use such a record to backtrack the packets
 pass and find out where they were originated?
 Um, nope.
 You can't.
 I mean, essentially the given router receives the onion package from one other router.
 That is, you know, it receives it.
 Now only it can decrypt that, the envelope, it, it didn't see the prior envelopes.
 Remember that we, we build the onion, which is fully nested as it starts down the path
 of onion routers.
 Each router uses its private key to decrypt one shell of the onion or an envelope, uh,
 to use, uh, CBS's term for this, their analogy.
 And so when, when any router receives the onion, they're only receiving what's left
 of it.
 That is the outer shells have been already removed by the, by the earlier stages down
 the route.
 So there's no way to backtrack that information is gone.
 Not only that, you cannot, you cannot forward track because after, exactly, it's encrypted
 with the, with the, you know, the, the remaining shell is encrypted with the next router's
 private key that only the next router can decrypt using, I'm sorry, it's encrypted with
 its public key, which only the next router can decrypt using its private key.
 So basically any router that receives the onion gets, and this is what's so cool about
 this notion of, of, of these onion shells receives only the information it needs to do.
 It's one little piece.
 It gets the symmetric key for the upstream link, the symmetric key for the downstream
 link to, to, you know, to each of its adjacent routers and the information it needs, then
 it gets this opaque blob that it forwards to the next downstream router in order to, to
 continue, you know, making this, this routing path.
 So it's just, you know, it really does work.
 It's very cool.
 Very, very elegant.
 Carlos J. Restrepo, or Restrepo in Houston, Texas is seeking some assurance about crypto.
 He writes, I was wondering about crypto and the protection of privacy.
 If I use a program like file vault in the Mac, that's the OS 10's built in encryption.
 It's kind of like the encryption now that's part of Vista, or some other program to encrypt
 your data.
 Can the government or some other agency order the developers of these programs, in this
 case, Apple helped them decrypt your data?
 And in this case, are the developers developers able to decrypt your data based on the algorithm
 they use to create the program or is your password absolutely necessary?
 Well, I would tell Carlos if he has not gone back and listened to the series we did on
 crypto, we did, you know, much earlier in security now, a really, I would almost say
 sort of a landmark series in, in really explaining all of the ins and outs of cryptography and
 how this technology works.
 To answer the question, any properly implemented crypto, and certainly I'm sure that apples
 is true crypts is, you know, it's one of the reasons, Leo, that you like open source solutions
 so much is because they're transparent.
 The, the technology itself has no backdoor.
 So while it's possible that someone could, for example, be writing your crypto key somewhere
 secretly on the system, that's not the way these systems work.
 That would be a breach of their operation, not a breach of the crypto crypto itself does
 not have a backdoor.
 That is the type of crypto we've been talking about where you have public key that is asymmetric
 keys with sufficient length or symmetric keys with sufficient length.
 They are, they're just elegantly beautiful mathematical solutions.
 And you know, while no one, no crypto expert will ever say that it cannot be broken as
 we know security comes over time from many, many people scrutinizing it and trying to
 break it and never finding a solution.
 Well, that's the case with the, with the mature crypto we have today.
 Everything we believe leads us to, to trust that there is no quick, simple solution for
 cracking crypto.
 And just because they know how it was done doesn't mean they can reverse the process
 because they know how it was done.
 It's not that doesn't work that way at all.
 Exactly.
 That means that's the, that that is the heart of the elegance is you can, you can, and everyone
 does publicly disclose, publish, write it on blackboards, talk about it in security
 now, you know, complete disclosure of how it works.
 There is, you know, there is, there is no obscurity because as, as we know, security
 does is not generally found in obscurity.
 It's completely unobscured and it is absolutely bulletproof.
 So I think what Carlos wanted to know was just sort of a, just a, a make sure that, you
 know, he could trust this to keep his secret safe.
 And as long as he uses a trustworthy solution, he absolutely can.
 And again, that's why I say open source because it's somebody can verify it.
 I mean, we, I trust Apple and Microsoft, but those are close source solutions.
 So you just don't know.
 The only way to be sure is if you have something like true crypt, which everybody's look can
 can look at the code of somebody pointed out that you can't always assure that everybody,
 that the code has been, you know, vetted because, you know, especially small projects.
 People may not be looking at the code, but I think with true crypt, it's pretty safe to
 assume that that's been right heavily vetted.
 Bert Keats of Sun City, West Arizona is worried about being fully stealthed or not fully stealth
 with windows 98.
 I was occasionally using two windows 98 SE machines in my home office, landed disconnected
 both from the network last July.
 There's a net gear router between the modem and my four computers.
 The other two systems run XP service pack two and IE seven, though I browse with Firefox
 most of the time.
 Good man.
 I just hooked up with one of the older wind 98 machines and checked it with shields up.
 It's all stealth except port 113.
 That's closed.
 Since my land is not true stealth, should I be worried about those two older windows
 98 machines?
 I want to be able to print the three printers and share files across the network.
 Thanks for a long time.
 Spin right user.
 Well, this is that there were a couple of interesting things that Bert brought up.
 First of all, true stealth is just the term I made up for shields up when you do a shields
 up test and it absolutely never hears anything back from the remote end.
 I do a bunch of funky things.
 I send TCP packets to port zero that doesn't exist.
 I send ICMP to zero and one.
 I play with different bits.
 Basically, I send a bunch of stuff trying to get anything back and only if nothing comes
 back.
 I then in the shields up display say you have true stealth.
 What Bert is seeing is he's seeing something that's very common, which is the other reason
 I wanted to I such a this question to talk about.
 That is port 113.
 Port 113 is the so-called IDENT port.
 It's an old technology that has not been used for years.
 It isn't normally necessary to provide any information.
 The idea would be when you are connecting to a remote computer, the remote computer would
 send you back an IDENT query looking for a server running on your machine that was listening
 for incoming queries on port 113.
 Your machine would then send back some confirming identification information, which would just
 sort of be a way for the remote server to check in with you, get whatever information
 you were making available.
 Some old FTP servers are apparently still configured to do this and some I think it's
 IRC servers also do too.
 Anyway, it's sort of old technology.
 The problem is if port 113 is stealthed, that is if it's not closed, if it's stealthed,
 then the the remote side will will will central try to open up a connection.
 It'll send a TCP SIM packet and wait for that to time out, then it sends another one, then
 it doubles the wait time and sends another one, then it doubles that wait time and sends
 another one.
 It can take like a minute before the server finally decides either a you don't exist and
 so it won't accept your incoming connection to it or it'll finally allow that.
 But at any event, if it's configured this way, it can delay your connections by a minute.
 So what the Netgear router is doing is it is stealthing everything, but deliberately
 leaving port 113 closed so that if a SIM packet comes to it on port 113, rather than dropping
 it and sending nothing back, thus being stealthed, it'll at least send back a reset act saying,
 I'm here, but this port is closed and that will cause any of those types of servers to
 say, okay, to immediately say, okay, no server running there, but at least we can move on.
 So the and the last thing I want to point out is that that Bert talks about firing up his
 Windows 98 machine, which is behind a router, then using shields up to test that machine.
 He's not testing that machine.
 Exactly.
 He's testing the router.
 It's important to remember that his little LAN will be on a private network.
 It'll be 192.168.0.whatever or .1.whatever, it'll be using the private network space.
 So he's testing, he's testing any remote access is testing the IP of his public facing connection
 to his ISP, which is his routers.
 So he's actually testing his router, not Windows 98, and just so Bert knows, behind a router,
 you can do file sharing, you can pretty much do, you know, sharing printers and so forth
 without any concern, because the router is working as a very good hardware firewall.
 And you might want to look at your router and turn if you've if you don't ever use IDENT,
 turn off that IDENT, you know, stealth it, right?
 Yes, you are often able to configure that and shut that down.
 Most routers do that now.
 And most people do that now, too, yes.
 Jim and Victoria, more Tor, Jim and Victoria BC wonders, would using Tor's anonymity and
 encrypted connection protect you on an open Wi-Fi network?
 Well, that's an interesting question because the problem with open Wi-Fi and this is something
 I wanted to to reiterate is that there are two problems and they're very different.
 There is the problem of someone monitoring your traffic, which is the one we generally
 focus on.
 And so any time you are using an encrypted connection, that aspect will be safe.
 The other problem, though, is your computer is probably it may be behind its own firewall.
 Hopefully it's behind its own firewall running in the laptop.
 Certainly, I would hope all security now listeners know that in any scenario they need to have
 their local software firewall running and the lot of security is coming from that.
 So, but if they did not have a local firewall running, then the inner open Wi-Fi environment,
 their machine is completely exposed.
 It would exactly be like allowing someone to just come along and plug a network into
 their computer and have access to their computer.
 Generally, lots of ports are still open behind someone's personal firewall.
 And we're now trusting the firewall to keep us safe or we're trusting our NAT routers.
 Many people will take a laptop from behind a NAT router out into a public Wi-Fi and have
 a problem if they're not running security locally on that laptop.
 So I just wanted to make the point that it's not just the traffic which needs to be secured,
 but the actual presence of the machine, it's on the wireless LAN with everybody else.
 And this has been a source of continuing security problems for Windows and other OS's in the
 past.
 So to make it clear, Tor does anonymity, not encryption.
 Correct.
 And I addressed that actually in the next question, which is why I wasn't trying to go any further
 with Jim's question.
 Well, then let's go to Vayler Trucks of Lawrenceville, Georgia.
 He says, "Why not use Tor instead of VPN in a hotspot?
 I just listened to episode 70 in which Tor and FreeNet were discussed.
 In discussing how Tor worked as a TCP-level redirector, which uses multi-level encryption,
 he said that quite well in the very terse form, it occurred to me that turning on Tor
 might serve as an alternative to using a VPN connection when using a public internet hotspot.
 Aside from the issue of performance, is there any reason why I shouldn't use Tor for encrypting
 data going over the first hop?"
 I need to determine for sure, Leo, whether running a Tor client does provide encryption
 between you and the first onion router.
 And that's what you care about, by the way, with an open Wi-Fi hotspot is you can't be
 encrypted the whole way because once you get to where you're going, it has to be open.
 But you want to encrypt it at least while it's in the Wi-Fi hot router.
 Exactly.
 Well, many people ask this question, so I will have an answer by the time we are next
 speaking for our next security now.
 And it's very clever because you could imagine using a single onion router on Tor just...
 Then it would be so slow, it would be fast.
 Exactly.
 It wouldn't be so slow if you're not frantic about anonymity as most of us generally are
 not because we don't normally have it in the sense of what Tor provides.
 If you're not frantic, you could use a single hop, very, a single node Tor onion router
 just to use encryption to it and take advantage of it much like any of these publicly available
 proxies.
 But here's the whole Tor network.
 So exactly as you say, Leo, you wouldn't have a slowdown of an extensive multi-hop Tor network
 if it encrypts that first hop from the client to the router, then it really would be an
 interesting alternative.
 Now, there's one caveat, and this is something that I did not mention two weeks ago when
 we talked about Tor, but it's a glitch in the issue, well, not really of anonymity but
 of privacy, and that is the only thing the Tor network handles is TCP.
 I did mention that before, that is it's a general TCP transport, but it doesn't handle
 UDP, and DNS uses UDP.
 Which means somebody listening to you while someone watching your traffic while you were
 using Tor would still see the DNS queries your system was making.
 They would know what IPs your system was looking up and by obviously by inference where you
 were going.
 Well, that's why you use Proxify.
 You want to encrypt and proxy all of your data until it gets away from your computer.
 And most Tor installations, when you read the docs, they say install Proxify for this kind
 of protection.
 Right.
 Exactly.
 Very interesting.
 We'll have to find out, I'm looking at the Tor, it's documentation.
 It's not clear, but you will be able to figure it out.
 I'm going to figure it out, and I'll have a definitive answer for everyone because if
 it turns out that that works, and you could use a single onion router as a free and always
 available VPN, that would be a really great solution.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 And I can't see any reason why they wouldn't encrypt that first lag unless it's overhead
 that they don't want.
 Well, just as far as I know, they use socks proxy and socks is not encrypted by default.
 So need to find out about that.
 Joe Campania of Ontario, California was wondering about the three or four digit security codes
 on credit cards.
 This always drives me crazy too.
 I'm glad you asked Joe.
 I know I'm a bit late for the holiday shopping season, but I was hoping you might take a moment
 to talk about the three or four digit security numbers on our mastercard visa in American
 Express cards.
 They're still very misunderstood by most consumers and a potential major security concern.
 Why are they there?
 How do they provide an extra layer of protection against fraud?
 Well, it's interesting, I actually learned more than I expected to because as you know,
 Leo, and as I think I may have mentioned, I wrote from scratch in assembly language,
 my own e-commerce system, right, for GRC a year or two before getting spin right six
 ready to go.
 I just, I didn't want to buy anything off the shelf.
 I didn't trust anybody else.
 Nobody else.
 You know, you know, there were constant security problems in people's shopping carts.
 I'm, you know, my model for GRC wasn't a shopping cart model.
 I don't have a hundred things people can buy, I have a hundred things people can download,
 but only one thing people can buy.
 So it just didn't make any sense to me.
 I wanted it to work exactly the way I wanted it to.
 So I wanted to write my own.
 What I learned is that by law, any credit card has to have a phone number on the back
 that a consumer, I mean, this is like consumer protection law, that a consumer can use to
 call the issuing company for help and that it's called the CSC, the card security code.
 It's also called a CVV or CVV2 within the industry.
 And the idea is that that is a security number which has a couple of special characteristics.
 It never is written on the mag stripe and it is never embossed on the card.
 So it will never be picked up by the old style credit card embossing deals where they stick
 your card in the machine with carbons and run the roller over it and it will never be picked
 up by a card swipe technology.
 So the theory is you have to have physical access to the card to know that number.
 Yes.
 And it turns out that some people, sometimes that number is written in the signature area,
 which is like a coded area of the card that can become scratched off over time.
 So you can lose that number.
 And the reason I mentioned the phone number is that you're always able, given that you
 can prove your identity to the person on the other end of the line, you're always able
 to get them to tell you what your code is and it's better not to record it on the card.
 It's better to move that number further from the card, maybe to a secret corner of your
 wallet where you keep the card just so that the two don't go hand in hand.
 So essentially, it is a, it is another level of authentication also by, by agreement that
 code, even if provided is never, it never appears in receipts.
 It never appears on printer receipts and it is never stored in a database.
 So that, so that essentially it is, as you said, Leo, it is a completely separate external,
 non-associated token that allows something, you know, it's like some additional level
 of authentication.
 I have to say that the security card system is grossly insecure.
 Yeah.
 It's not very long, but they realized as it, but basically it's sort of like an ATM PIM.
 It's like a PIM that goes with your credit card, you know, credit cards get stolen all
 the time.
 Yeah, you give out that number, if somebody, if you buy something, they'll ask you for
 that CSC number.
 And so you're giving it out on a phone, I mean, it's just, it's just grossly insecure.
 The whole credit card system is, and I guess until we get smart cards and the bio identification,
 it's probably going to stay that way.
 Well, of course, it, it, the result, this is the result of the fact that credit cards
 predated online commerce and, but, but I mean, even then, remember, as we've talked before,
 you're handing your credit card to an anonymous server in a restaurant.
 And there's, and there's no association of that card with you, really.
 Right.
 And I think that's the problem.
 There's no, you know, but I'm sure we'll come up with better ways someday.
 Yep.
 You know, there's not enough fraud or the fraud is, you know, as a user, you don't mind
 because you're protected.
 Yeah.
 If you keep an eye on things and appropriately anonymous sender located somewhere in Southeast
 England asks about tour sounds like tour is quite a sophisticated system, but there are
 still a few questions.
 You said there's no need to trust any of the routers in the chain, but what about the last
 router?
 You see it removed the last layer of encryption from the data packet and sends it on to the
 server.
 So if one is corrupted, say owned by the NSA, can the originating IP address also be extracted?
 I mean, there must be some way for those routers to know where to send the reply, right?
 And isn't there some way to find out where the packets coming from by intercepting the
 clear text between the last router and the server or just by owning the server?
 Well, yeah, he asks a bunch of questions and we sort of have already covered this and touched
 on earlier in this single episode, but I'll just answer his question because it does amplify
 what we said.
 If the last router were compromised, as he said, it's receiving unencrypted data, both
 coming out of the router, bound toward where you're sending your traffic and unencrypted
 coming back, then it encrypts it.
 Well, the IP that it's coming back to is its own and that identifies the channel that has
 been set up through the onions.
 So it is not the case that even a compromised last router is able to have any idea where
 the traffic is going.
 It absolutely knows nothing about it.
 It knows how to encrypt it and which next onion router to send it to.
 That's all it knows.
 So it does see the clear text.
 It is able to watch what you're doing, but remember, and you've amplified this point
 several times, Leo, Tor is not about security and privacy.
 It's about anonymity.
 And so it's important that, you know, I mean, and this question brings up the point that
 the last router is seeing anonymous people's traffic coming in and out of it.
 It doesn't know who they are.
 So it's not encrypted, they could read it.
 They can read it.
 Now, and as I mentioned before, there are some hacks that could be performed against
 an unwitting user.
 For example, that router returning web pages could alter the web pages.
 If it were malicious and inject some JavaScript, which would follow the web page back router
 by router by router to the user's browser.
 If the user's browser is running scripting by default, then it's going to run that JavaScript
 and do whatever that malicious person told it to now.
 It's worth noting though that any web server can do the same thing.
 So it's not.
 So it's not like this is a particular vulnerability of the onion routing system.
 It's, you know, if you've got scripting enabled by default, which, which smart people don't,
 then you're safe against that kind of problem.
 There's a lot of information on the tour wiki on using things like the Firefox, no scripts
 extension to, to prevent.
 Exactly.
 Yeah.
 Exactly.
 But to answer his question, isn't there some way that the router knows who you are and
 the answer is unless you tell it like by scripting or a cookie or something, no, there is no
 way because all it knows is the next hop and this system is now active enough.
 There are so many routers, I mean, there's just a blizzard of traffic, more so actually
 after we talked about it two weeks ago, a blizzard of traffic flying among these routers.
 There's just no way to know where it's going.
 All right.
 Last question.
 Fred Barlow of Atlanta, Georgia had an interesting question about cryptography.
 If I generate public and private keys and someone else generates the exact same, there's
 your problem right there, public and private key with messages encrypted with the public
 key one, will they be able to be decrypted by the private key and to vice versa?
 Yep.
 Yeah, but that's never going to happen exactly the as we know from our, from our episodes
 on crypto, because of their nature, public keys that is to say asymmetric keys where you
 have a matching pair of public and private key, they are very long.
 They are, they are one K, two K, four K in even more modern cases.
 I mean, they are generally extremely long.
 Two to the one thousand and twenty four is how many different possible one K bit keys
 there are.
 Well, I mean, it's just an astronomically large number.
 I can't even, you know, do some quick math to give people an idea.
 I mean, that is just, it's the, the, the chance of it happening is so small that you absolutely
 don't need to worry about it.
 And, and there's just no way you could guess it because there are too many guesses.
 So even if, if two random people who on the planet both happen to have, to have randomly
 chosen the same key, they would never know it.
 So the chance of, of one of them trying to decrypt some of the other had encrypted, well,
 that's vanishingly small too.
 I mean, it just, these things are so large.
 Don't worry.
 What he is so low.
 Don't worry.
 Calm down.
 It's okay.
 Hey, a great set of 12 questions, Steve.
 And you've done a great job explaining them all.
 I do want to thank our friends at Dell for sponsoring this podcast.
 I do think this is the last one.
 I don't think they run out into this.
 Leo, I have to interrupt you for one second.
 I just picked up my calculator because I was curious.
 I tried to raise two to the 1,024th power using my, my HP.
 It won't do it.
 I love.
 No, 9.99999 to the 99th, I mean, which means it just overflowed and blew the calculator's
 mind.
 So it's a number larger than the number of molecules in the universe.
 I just don't have to.
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 I think you're more likely to have a positron electron explosion.
 Steve, Dell is, of course, the sponsor of this podcast, their last time on the show.
 And we want to thank them so much for a great quarter of ads.
 Your last chance to get a great deal on a Dell through the twit.tv/dellpage, the Leo's
 pics page, some great computers there, but anything you click and then buy later anything
 you buy on the Dell site.
 If you go through that link, in other words, we'll count towards us and we do appreciate
 that.
 We do appreciate Dell's support.
 I've always been a Dell fan.
 It's just a real thrill for me to get Michael Dell behind us and say, "Hey, we believe in
 what you're doing on twit and we want to help you out."
 It's been a good year with Dell.
 It has.
 It really has.
 Also, a good year that will continue with a Staro.
 They've decided to sign up.
 They're re-upping our first sponsor and I think they'll probably be with us as long as we're
 around.
 Staro makes the Staro security gateway.
 If you're in a smaller media business and you're looking for an all-in-one solution that
 does everything.
 It's superior protection from spam, from viruses.
 It's got hacker protection, complete VPN capabilities, intrusion detection, content filtering and
 an industrial strength firewall and it's all-in-one, simple, easy-to-use appliance.
 It's not very big.
 It's about as big as a router, but it does it all.
 You can get one in your business free for a trial, contact a Staro ASTARO.com or call
 877-4 ASTARO, a free trial of the Staro Gateway Appliance.
 If you're a non-business user, you can download the Staro version free at ASTARO.com and install
 it on a PC and get great protection.
 In fact, for a very low subscription price, you can even get all of the additional features
 added in and automatically updated.
 It's really kind of a neat idea.
 More people should try it out, ASTARO.com.
 For more information about this subject and 16-kilobit versions of the show for the bandwidth
 impaired and transcripts, too.
 If you'd like to read along while Steve's talking, go to grc.com.
 That's the home of security now of SpinRight, Steve's incredible disk maintenance utility,
 and of course, all those great free programs, secureable will be out very soon and a ton
 of other ones that are a must-have.
 Let's not forget Shield's Up, which is stillI mean, how many people have used Shield's
 Up now so far?
 It's a huge number.
 I think we're approaching 47 million.
 Ooh!
 That's outrageous.
 That's great.
 Yeah.
 Wonderful.
 Steve, have a very happy new year.
 We will see you in 2007, one-week hence.
 Oh, seven.
 Amazing.
 Yeah.
 Amazing.
 This has been such a successful podcast.
 Entering now our third year of securing you, your friends and family, since 2005.
 I like it.
 Thanks, Steve.
 Have a great happy new year, man.
 We'll see you next year on security now.
 I don't know.
 Security now.
 Security now.
 Security now.
