 NetCasts you love, from people you trust.
 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by AOL Radio at AOL.com/podcasting.
 This is Security Now with Steve Gibson, Episode 82, for Thursday, March 8th, 2007, Cyber Warfare.
 Security Now is brought to you by Astaro, makers of the Astaro Security Gateway, on the web
 at www.astRO.com.
 And by Nerds on Site, looking to grow your IT service business, find out how Nerds on
 Site can help visit, IWANNABEANNURD.com.
 Time to talk about security, protecting yourself, your computers, your home, your family, and
 our national borders with Mr. Steve Gibson.
 I kind of blew it up a little bit bigger than it really is.
 Well, actually we are going to talk about national borders today, so that's...
 Oh, really?
 Oh, good.
 Oh.
 Yeah, we're going to talk about state-sponsored cyber warfare.
 Holy cow.
 Which I think is, you know, a really interesting topic.
 And there's actually more going on than people might guess, so I think it's going to be
 really interesting.
 I can't wait to hear that.
 But any thing that we want to clear up from last episode, or...
 Oh, yes, the challenge of secure Wi-Fi just never seems to be resolved.
 We of course talked last week following up from the week before, last week we were talking
 about this problem of how ad hoc networks as opposed to infrastructure networks, an infrastructure
 being where you've got a base station you're connecting to, an ad hoc network being where
 you just have two random, for example, laptops that are able to directly connect to each
 other or associate in order to create a connection, and how unfortunately Windows XP is a little
 misbehaving.
 In fact, you had that neat anecdote from two weeks ago Leo about how there's sort of almost
 a virus, this free Wi-Fi network virus that jumps from laptop to laptop.
 Well, hearing last week's episode where we talked about and showed on the show notes
 page how to go through and deliberately disable this sort of automatic ad hoc network connectivity,
 some sharp people over in the GRC news groups picked up and said, "Hey Steve, did you forget
 about the Windows client update from late last year?"
 And it's like, then of course it rang a bell and I remembered being aware of it, but it's
 something we definitely want to talk about.
 Okay, now get this, Leo, this is really annoying, a completely patched, like right up-to-date
 XP system that includes wireless, will not have a client update to the Windows, it goes
 by various names like wireless zero configuration WZC, but it will not have a really important
 update which all XP service pack people, service pack two people, will really want to incorporate.
 So it's something that Microsoft, it turns out it was on October 17th of '06.
 So only a few months ago that Microsoft released this to fix a whole bunch of holes in this
 wireless zero configuration, but they never put it on their list of stuff that you'd
 like to have automatically downloaded into your machine.
 Oh, so you have to specifically request it?
 Yes.
 Yes, and it's really important.
 For example, on our show notes page, of course, I've got links to all this, but reading under
 changes for ad hoc networks, it says on a computer that does not have the wireless client update,
 which is what we're talking about, installed.
 Wireless auto configuration, which is the other name it goes by, either zero configuration
 or auto configuration, automatically tries to connect to all the wireless networks in
 the preferred networks list that have previously been connected to, get this, if no infrastructure
 mode networks are present, wireless auto configuration sends probe requests out to try to connect
 to the first ad hoc wireless network in the preferred networks list.
 An observer could monitor these probe requests and establish an unsecured connection with
 a window's wireless client.
 So literally, you're a laptop that someone just carrying around with them when they're
 not connected into a network already.
 It's every minute, it's sending out probes announcing networks that it used to be connected
 to or had been connected to in the past to see whether there might be a non-broadcasting
 network that is a network which is not broadcasting its SSID, its network identification that
 would allow then this machine to connect to it.
 So it's literally, it's spilling the beans, it's sending out the names of networks that
 your laptop knows about.
 So, yeah, and so like, okay, this is not a huge security problem, but who wants their
 window's machine sending out, you know, on by radio, Wi-Fi names of...
 Here's people I trust.
 Here's people I trust.
 Okay.
 Just someone.
 Pretend you're one of them.
 Yeah.
 I mean, essentially anyone passively sniffing Wi-Fi packets will be learning about the names
 of the networks that the people around them have connected to in the past.
 Now, I guess that I would guess that's how the free public Wi-Fi is present.
 That's exactly how it happens is that a machine that has it broadcasts it, another machine
 says, "Oh!"
 And connects it.
 And now it has it.
 So the change is on a computer that has the wireless client update installed, wireless
 auto configuration does not send probe requests to connect to newly created ad hoc wireless
 networks in the preferred networks list because many ad hoc wireless networks are created
 for temporary wireless connectivity.
 I mean, that's like all what you'd be using it for.
 You must use the choose a wireless network dialog box to manually initiate a connection
 to an ad hoc mode wireless network.
 Okay.
 Now, that makes sense.
 So here's a perfect example of Microsoft still not getting this trade-off between privacy
 and security and convenience because the original design even post-service pack two, I mean,
 this is just, you know, in October of at the end of '06 is, you know, so even past post-service
 pack two, the big much heralded security update for Windows XP, they're saying, "Oh, it's
 better to air in the direction of convenience and oh, look, it just works than it is towards
 privacy and security."
 Interestingly though, this whole wireless zero config while it I guess on the surface looks
 more convenient is cost more problems for more people.
 It is not is the opposite of convenient.
 I mean, I get people complaining all the time that they drop connections in offense because
 wireless zero config is kind of promiscuous.
 Well, actually, that's also one of the things that this updates deals with is if you end
 up with another network acquiring a stronger signal than the one you've got.
 Just flip over, yes, yours, it's able to jump networks and switch to the stronger one.
 It's like, "No, that's not my network."
 You know, this is not a cell phone where I want to be jumping between cell towers.
 So anyway, they've fixed a bunch of things.
 We've got links on the show notes page to this description to the page you can use for
 downloading and just, I was curious.
 So I literally, I took an XP machine that had never, it was fully patched up to date.
 I looked at one of the main files, which is WZCSVC.dll.
 So that's going to be wireless zero config service.dll.
 On a completely patched XP service pack two machine, it's file date with 6.2105.
 Okay.
 That's completely patched with critical patches, but not these optional patches.
 Well, no, everything that you can get automatically from, you know, as you install an XP, then
 you go through all the Windows update cycles over and over and over until it finally, you
 know, the patches have had their patches and they've had their patches so that it's all
 settled down and says, "Okay, you got everything you need.
 This thing is not part of that."
 And so only if you deliberately update, then it jumps you from a 6.2105 to 8.8806 on basically
 a whole set of files, which are enumerated on this page.
 So people will be able to look at their files, see whether this has been done for them by
 someone and most likely it hasn't been since it hasn't been that long ago.
 It was in October.
 I'm sure not.
 And so I mean, everyone listening is going to want to run this patch because this basically
 locks down the wireless service, you know, this auto config sort of promiscuity of XP.
 So once again, you'll run Windows Update.
 It's not a critical patch, though.
 You have to go in the optional patches.
 And what's the name of it?
 No, no, no, Leo, it's not in Windows Update.
 You can't find it there.
 It's not even there?
 No, you have to deliberately go and ask for this by name.
 So the only way to find it, I mean, if you put in, for example, to Google or to Microsoft,
 you put in a wireless client update.
 I'm sure you could find it on Microsoft's site that way.
 So wireless client update, put it in the Microsoft search box.
 I'm sure you'll find it.
 Or we've got links to it on our show notes, but there is no way, I mean, it doesn't show
 at all through any of the normal, you know, take care of me Microsoft update.
 It's not even an optional update.
 It's okay.
 And it is the first Google result if you do wireless client update.
 And there is a download link on that page.
 So perfect.
 And that's for XP.
 Now, presumably they fixed that in Vista.
 Yes.
 Given, given, you know, that they know they made a mistake and they should have fixed this
 and Vista came out, you know, only last month in February, we can presume.
 Yeah.
 Although I still I have to say I'm still scratching my head about where they've hidden all these
 things in Vista.
 It's like I dug around and couldn't find sort of the same thing that I'm used to seeing
 in XP.
 So this modifies six different files.
 So it's a it's a quite a big of big update.
 It's yes.
 Basically, it's the entire collection of, of, you know, windows, zero, the wireless zero
 config set and I only read one aspect of the behavior changes there.
 There's like five or six different things that this thing says, Oh, this isn't really
 not what we want to do.
 It's just, I mean, who wants their, their unconnected laptop that probably has a Wi-Fi
 still on the Wi-Fi radio still on unless you're like really, you know, conscious of that as
 I am, for example, to shut it down and save battery life.
 When I remember to do that, you know, who wants it broadcasting the, the name of networks
 it knows.
 Yeah.
 That's just not cool.
 Well, in the past, we've, we've got this question a lot on the radio show and I just
 told people disable the wireless zero config service that you don't want it because it's
 a bad thing.
 But now I, I have something better, which is download an update and you know, you should
 come on the radio show and tell everybody, because I think people need to know this.
 This is something we want to get out.
 Very.
 Oh, that's a great idea.
 Any other updates?
 Well, no, except that I've been trying to read this one really neat piece of email that
 we received about a spin rights saving someone's business.
 Yeah.
 But, you know, of course, last week it saved you, it saved your computer.
 So I was, I was quite willing to have you to talk about that.
 You do it now.
 Anyway, so this is from, this is email from a Michael Diaz in New Jersey and he, the subject
 of the email with spin rights saves a business.
 He says, I just wanted to drop you a note thanking you for your great product spin right.
 I'm a network administrator and I use spin right on a regular basis to diagnose problems
 as well as refreshing drives on our older PCs.
 I'm well aware of the value and power of spin right as a business tool.
 That's why it's what I used when a friend's business was on the line.
 He says, I have a friend who is an automotive specialty tuner and I didn't even know about
 this kind of thing, but he says he builds and customizes primarily late model Ford Mustangs.
 Many of these cars have 400, 500, even 600 plus horsepower and in order to reliably and
 safely drive these cars on the street, there needs to be a very good tune as he calls it
 built into them.
 Different cars are tuned via software and that usually requires a laptop and a lot of
 tweaking to the car's software.
 So I receive a frantic call from a friend one day basically saying his laptop will not
 boot.
 It starts up, gets a blue screen of death and then reboots getting caught on a cycle.
 I know this is never a good sign, so I dart out to his shop with only spin right in hand.
 When I arrive there, my first question is of course, do you back up the data on the laptop?
 To which I hear the reply, no, no, no, no, no, so this ends up being like critical stuff
 to this guy.
 He says, knowing full well that his reputation as a tuner and the hard hours of work he's
 put into building his business are on the line, I put spin right to work.
 The first thing I notice is that the hard drive is clicking.
 Uh oh.
 He says, that is never a good sign.
 I start to wonder if I'm too late, but I continue on with spin right.
 It does not take long for it to find some bad sectors and we decide to leave it running
 for a while.
 Many, many hours later, the scan finishes with a plethora of red use showing on the screen.
 The only way I can describe it is it looks like virtual Swiss cheese.
 As I attempt to reboot the laptop, the clicking is gone and windows boots.
 So the red user are unrecoverable sectors and it's been right.
 Yes, what it really represents is we were unable to get all of the sectors data back.
 One of the very coolest things about spin right that makes it completely unique as far as I
 know is we're able to read most of a sector, even if we can't get it all.
 And so spin right will try like crazy to get it all.
 And in fact, that's what this whole dynastat thing is the dynamic statistics is it's able
 to accept whatever the computer is able to read, even if it's not perfect, knowing that's
 not perfect.
 And so it's very often the case that we can get one good read, but if not, even after
 trying a lot, spin right is able to say, okay, I couldn't get it all.
 But for example, out of 4,096 bits, which is what a sector is, it might get 4,090, which
 you could argue for in many cases, for example, if it's a critical, for example, a file system
 sector, you might get back your file system, because that one sector was preventing the
 whole file system from functioning.
 So you can tolerate some fuzziness in some sectors.
 Anyway, so he says, I attempt to reboot the laptop, the clicking is gone, and Windows
 boots, not trusting the drive, not trusting the drive.
 I quickly retrieve his data and tuning files, as well as his custom tuning software, none
 of which he had copies of.
 Not long after transferring all his vital data off the system, the click is back.
 This time, the drive just dies.
 Luckily, spin right was able to make it stable enough for me to get all the data off before
 it completely seized.
 Spin right does not have to completely fix a drive to save the day.
 In my case, it did enough for me to get the vital customer data off the dying drive, and
 yes, save his business.
 I can't tell you how competitive the custom tuner scene is, especially in the world of
 super high-power streetcars.
 When's reputation is key, and in this case, that reputation is intact, thanks to spin
 right.
 So that was your backup.
 Yes, please, please, I mean, you know, I'm glad we're able to like, you know, come to
 the rescue in these cases, but really, when there's this kind of data, I'm sure his friend
 now has learned a lesson by seeing how close he came to the brink of losing everything.
 He's very lucky.
 And it generally takes one of those lessons to, you know, unfortunately get so included.
 It's really true.
 Hey, we're going to get to our subject, which is, I think, very interesting cyber warfare.
 In just a second, we do want to thank Ostaro, our sponsors for this show.
 They've released version seven of the Ostaro security gateway and a number of improvements,
 including, as we mentioned before, transparent email encryption and decryption, which means
 it's centralized in the Ostaro gateway.
 So your users, your, your, your employees don't have to even know about it.
 No additional encryption software is required on their computers.
 It just does it all for them and even handles digital signatures based on SMI and open PGP
 standards.
 Really, really works and inbound mail is automatically decrypted.
 So it allows you to have a completely secure email without any effort on your part.
 Of course, there's lots of other new features, including SSL for VPN.
 In fact, I think the Ostaro is the only UTM appliance on the market with such an amazing
 array of VPN and remote access solutions.
 You can cluster them, which means it'll scale to any size as many as 10 gateways can be
 clustered together.
 And they have, and this is for home users, great news, eliminated the home user fee.
 So you can continue to download the home use package for free as always for non commercial
 use.
 You'll also get the base license, all subscriptions and a star are up to date for free.
 They're giving it away.
 So if you've got an old beige box lying around, you want to turn into a security gateway.
 This is the way to do it.
 A S T A R O dot common.
 Don't forget, you can call a star for a free trial in your business.
 Just call eight, seven, seven.
 The number four A S T A R O thank them for supporting security now.
 Cyber warfare, even the even the name sounds scary, sounds like war games, sounds like
 Matthew Broderick should be part of this.
 Well, yes.
 And I think the really interesting thing is that without specific details, it's so easy
 to pass off this whole concept as just sci fi.
 It's like, oh, yeah, come on, I mean, like, you know, state sponsored cyber warfare.
 What what what I want to start with here is reading a really interesting article because
 it provides this kind of grounding and foundation.
 This was in federal computer week.
 The article is dated November, I'm sorry, February 13th.
 So less than a month ago from Norfolk, Virginia, the article reads at the Naval Network Warfare
 Command.
 Okay.
 So first of all, there is something we have in the United States called the Naval Network
 Warfare Command.
 Napoleon Solo should be an agent for that.
 My goodness.
 Wow.
 If they it says US cyber defenders track and investigate hundreds of suspicious events
 each day.
 Oh, I forgot to read the title.
 The title of this article is cyber officials colon, Chinese hackers attack anything and
 everything.
 Yeah, that I know is the title.
 So wow.
 It says, so, so cyber defenders track and investigate hundreds of suspicious events every day.
 But the predominant threat comes from Chinese hackers who are constantly waging all out
 warfare against defense department networks, network, com officials say, I don't know if
 they're targeting defense department networks because they're also all at warfare against
 my website.
 So I think it's just general.
 Yes.
 Well, it says attacks coming from China, probably with government support.
 Our outstrip other attackers in terms of volume proficiency and sophistication set a senior
 network com official who spoke to reporters on background February 12th.
 The conflict has reached the level of a campaign style force on force engagement.
 He said, I don't even sure what force on force means.
 It doesn't sound good.
 It doesn't sound good that he says, quote, they will exploit anything and everything the
 senior officials said referring to the Chinese hacker strategy.
 And although it is impossible to confirm the involvement of a China's government, I'm sorry,
 of China's government, the attacks are so deliberate, quote, it's hard to believe it's not government
 driven.
 This the official said the motives of Chinese hackers run the gamut, including technology
 theft, intelligence gathering, ex filtration, research on DoD operations and the creation
 of dormant presences within DoD networks for future action, the official said, a recent
 Chinese military white paper state, okay, get this, a recent Chinese military white paper
 states that China plans to be able to win and quote, informationized war, unquote, by the
 middle of this century, overall, China seeks a position of power to ensure its freedom of
 action in international affairs and the ability to influence the global economy, the senior
 official said.
 Chinese hackers were responsible for an intrusion in November 2006 that disabled the Naval War
 College's network, forcing the college to shut down its email and computer systems for
 several weeks, the official said, forensic analysis showed that the Chinese were seeking
 information on war games in development at NWC, the official said, NWC was vulnerable
 because it was not part of the Navy Marine Corps intranet and did not have the latest
 security protections, the official explained, he said this was indicative of the Chinese
 strategy to focus on weak points in the network, China has also been using spearfishing, sending
 deceptive mass email messages to lure DoD users into clicking on a malicious URL, because
 it's spearfishing.
 Yeah, well, because it's instead of phishing where you're just sort of broadcasting to
 anyone, yes, a spearfishing exploit is exactly as targeted, and in this case, at DoD users,
 DoD employees, so it's directly, and of course, spearfishing means that they can also tune
 the content of the email to be more application specific.
 So it might be more prone to a DoD interest and look more authentic to people in the DoD.
 It says, China is also using more traditional hacking methods such as Trojan horse viruses
 and worms, but in innovative ways.
 For example, a hacker will plan a virus as a distraction and then come in "slow and low"
 to hide in a system while the monitors are distracted.
 Hackers will also use coordinated multi-pronged attacks, the official added.
 Chinese hackers gained notoriety in the United States when a series of devastating intrusions
 beginning in 2003 was traced to a team of researchers in the Guangdong Province.
 The program, which DoD called Titan Rain, was first reported by Federal Computer Week
 in August 2005 following that incident, DoD renamed the program and then classified the
 new name, so we don't know what it's called.
 That particular set of hackers is still active, the net war calm official said.
 He would not confirm whether the Titan Rain group was linked to the NWC attack or any
 other recent high profile intrusions.
 Other senior military officials have spoken out recently on US cyber strategy saying the
 country urgently needs to develop new policies and procedures for fighting in the cyber domain.
 Current US cyber warfare strategy is dysfunctional said General James Cartwright, commander of
 the Strategic Command Stratcom, in a speech at the Air Warfare Symposium in Orlando,
 Florida the week before.
 Offensive defensive and reconnaissance efforts among US cyber forces are incompatible and
 don't communicate with one another, resulting in a disjointed effort, said Cartwright.
 General Ronald Keyes, commander of Air Combat Command, told reporters at the conference
 that current policies prevent the United States from pursuing cyber threats based in foreign
 countries.
 He has outpaced policy in cyberspace, he said.
 The United States should take more aggressive measures against foreign hackers and websites
 that help others attack government systems, Keyes said.
 It may take a cyber version of the 2001 terrorist attack, meaning 9/11, for the country to realize
 it must re-examine its approach to cyber warfare.
 Networkcom officials describe their approach as an active defense in which monitors build
 defenses around the perimeter of DOD systems, work to mitigate the effects of attacks and
 restore damaged parts of the network.
 Meanwhile, the consolidation of DOD's cyber resources is ongoing.
 Networkcom works directly with a joint task force for global network operations, DOD's
 lead agency on network defense and operations, a component of Stratcom.
 Networkcom, the Navy's lead cyber agency, is moving from monitoring the networks to full
 command and control capabilities.
 The Air Force announced in October '06 that it will create a cyber command based on the
 infrastructure of the 8th Air Force under Lieutenant General Robert Elder at Barchdale
 Air Force Base, Louisiana, to coordinate its cyber warfare efforts.
 In the end, the cyber threat is revolutionary, because it has no battle lines, the intelligence
 is intangible, and attacks come without warning, leaving no time to prepare defenses.
 Education and training of computer users, not enforcement, are the most effective defense
 measures officials said.
 Well, we've kind of said that for a long time.
 Yeah.
 That's what we do.
 It isn't that.
 I mean, it demonstrates that the U.S. and certainly other nations on the globe are really
 taking this notion of the importance of our global network and the need to defend ourselves
 against deliberate attacks and intrusions into that network surface.
 I thought it was really interesting, too, because last week or the week before, I don't remember
 which, about this idea of good guys who had the best interests of the world and users
 and the network and so forth at heart, could they proactively do things to other people's
 machines that were good for them?
 For example, since we had the IPs of worms on the internet, and we even have them today,
 I mean, there's still instances of blaster and code red and other war in NIMDA out on
 the net scanning around, still trying to infect machines.
 And if you put a fresh copy of Windows 2000 or XP on the network without its firewall
 in place and not behind a router, it'll get infected before long.
 That's now been proven and as well known.
 So that means that we all know the IPs of those machines, but the law protects us from
 fixing them, even though we could, since they were infectable by this problem, we could
 you know, use the same problem to disinfect them, but doing so is illegal.
 And so similarly, it's clear that in this report, the military is saying that US policy
 and law prevent them from doing to others what apparently is being done to us effectively.
 Yeah, I mean, you know, I sometimes it's unfortunate after many years of being lied
 to by our government.
 I'm not sure I completely trust what they're saying.
 I'm trying to think of what ulterior motives they might have to this and I'd hate to see
 them move towards locking down what we can do on the internet using this as an excuse
 for it.
 But I think it's probably pretty clear that this is going on, isn't it?
 One, yeah, I think so.
 And in fact, one thing that I find really interesting is that it seems that they're having such
 a problem in protecting themselves.
 Now there was a reference to an intranet, meaning that these systems that were vulnerable
 were apparently directly on the internet.
 And so you can imagine, I mean, you know, DoD has humans has people just like any others.
 And they've got their their their PC at home where they've surfed the net and they click
 on links and they've got email.
 And the problem is the experience is so much the same when they're on the internet at work
 that they probably bring some of their their casual habits that developed in non, you
 know, critical non information, non intelligence, critical environments with them and may without
 thinking click on a link in email.
 So to me, it's really interesting that with this much at stake with, with, you know, national
 secrets and the idea that some somebody could obviously, as we know, you click on a link
 and your browser goes somewhere, you've got scripting active, there's, you know, a whole
 basket full of exploits that that are are currently known that allow even fully patched
 browsers to get compromised.
 So so it's very much the case that that I guess I'm surprised that these networks are
 exposed to the internet, which we know is such a hostile place.
 You would think though, that if anybody could block and lock down their systems, it would
 be the Department of Fast.
 Well, I have an interesting story that I've I've never told from dates back about five
 years ago, a hacker contacted me a white hat hacker contacted me saying that he had gained
 access into Microsoft's internal networks.
 And I said, okay, I don't want to talk to you about this.
 I mean, I said, I don't want anything to do with this.
 Go away.
 Yeah.
 And he said, well, you know, I really think this deserves some attention.
 And I said, go talk, tell Microsoft, you know, tell them how you're doing this.
 If your interest is really to like help them do things better.
 And I said, look, you know, and he wanted to like send me some proof and I said, no, you're
 not sending me anything.
 And he said, well, you know, how can I bring this to public attention?
 And I said, well, you know, if your interest is in embarrassing Microsoft, then you want
 to talk to some computer reporter and not me.
 I said, I'm not going there.
 So actually, I did have a guy that I knew that I referred him to, and that is a very
 active reporter in the computer industry who did receive based on all of his, you know,
 reporter confidentiality agreements and things.
 He received some documents that proved to him that this guy really had penetrated Microsoft's
 network.
 And again, he urged the guy, I urged the guy, just tell Microsoft, you know, you know, get
 a story written if that's what turns you on, but tell Microsoft.
 And, but the point of this is what he explained was that, that he had, he'd gotten in through
 some satellite network in a foreign country.
 I mean, a Microsoft remote sales or support office or something got essentially onto a
 computer that wasn't as secure as it should have been.
 I think it was back in the Windows 2000 days.
 So the Windows 2K box that had some vulnerabilities, he was able to get into it.
 Once he was there, he was on a network.
 And so he established a presence on that machine.
 And he was able to, within Microsoft's network to, and this was arguably, and as I recall,
 I mean, this is a long time ago, he was able to go from sort of leapfrog, from an insecure
 intranet to a much higher security intranet by finding a machine that had dual network
 adapters.
 So somewhere there was somewhere, maybe at Redmond or, or, or who knows where there was
 a machine on, that was straddling both networks.
 It was on the less secure intranet and also had a presence on the game.
 Well, exactly.
 And so whoever it was running that machine, they needed, they needed to simultaneous
 connection to both networks.
 And there was no hard vision separating these two intranets.
 So he was able to get himself onto from a, from a satellite machine onto basically a more,
 a more important machine that had two networks and then essentially hop into the much stronger
 network through that means setting up a relay point of his own at that machine.
 So, so I guess the point is that, that, you know, even, even a network architecture designed
 to be secure where, you know, you really, really have spent time showing this thing up
 and, and preventing anyone from getting in, if it's a sufficiently, a sufficiently complex
 and sophisticated set of connectivities, there can be little loopholes that, you know, you,
 that are not obvious and that somebody determined really just sort of like exerting pressure
 from the outside, they can find a leak.
 If they, if they sit there and exert sufficient pressure, does this mean that it's impossible
 that the hackers will always win because, I mean, there's just more of them and they're
 more willing to work at this than anybody else is willing to defend?
 I mean, if the Department of Defense can't secure it, Microsoft can't secure it.
 Well, we don't have any hope.
 Well, it's certainly the case that, that there are systems within the DoD that are off the
 internet and, you know, we've all seen in sort of, you know, sci-fi movies where you,
 you go into a room that just got a computer sitting there and, you know, and it's a super
 high security machine.
 Well, you know, there's no way that you can go www.google.com and, you know, you are not
 on the internet on that machine.
 So you have to have, you know, a completely separate network with like no, no connectivity
 across.
 So certainly that's the case, but what happens is people do want convenience and that's always
 that case of like, well, you know, I'll be really careful.
 I need to be able to get on the internet, but I also need to have access to the internal
 DoD documents.
 So that's a point of vulnerability.
 And I think you could argue that with networks being so sophisticated, so complex with their
 interconnectivity becoming richer and richer that there are ways to worm around inside.
 Yeah.
 Amazing.
 Well, let's hope that people are listening to this and the Chinese aren't.
 And if you're in China, we're glad you're listening.
 And please don't hack us.
 Please.
 We beg of you.
 Well, yes.
 And, you know, I'm, I'm a little skeptical of these guys saying, oh, this is supported
 by the Chinese government and, you know, because of the nature of the attacks, you know, we
 know that, that, you know, teenagers are running botnets of tens of thousands of bots and are
 able to administer huge attacks anywhere they want to, you know, bandwidth floods and they're,
 they're being used for spamming emails and things.
 And if it weren't known that these were 13 year olds who were running these networks,
 you might think, oh, this must be some, you know, major government operations, like, no,
 it turns out that, you know, people are curious and, you know, like, like certainly in the
 case that I was talking about the, this white hacker guy who's, you know, I remember very
 little about him now, but he was just, you know, he was curious and he was just poking
 around and seeing what he could do, seeing, I mean, oh, and it's illegal and we want to
 make sure we stress that all of this is illegal, but, you know, it's very possible to me that
 there are just, you know, non government backed people certainly all over the world who are
 poking at other countries networks, I wouldn't be at all surprised if we're doing the same.
 I could provide you with evidence of that.
 If I look at my logs and I bet if you look at your logs, I get every day hundreds and hundreds
 of attempts to find back doors into my system attempts to log on via telnet and SSH and
 almost all of them come from Chinese IP addresses.
 I don't think the government's trying to break it to a TV.
 I think they're a lot of, and they're, they're usually universities in China.
 I think there are a lot of kids there who, you know, for whatever reason they liked it,
 they're hacking and they're trying to find a backdoor into my system.
 I can guarantee you that twit.tv is not a backdoor into the Department of Defense.
 Maybe they know something I don't know, but it's just, I mean, it's gone on for as long
 as I've had a web server and, and, you know, they, they try to hack every service SMTP,
 IMAP, you know, and they have that hack services that I don't have.
 They're just, they're just, I'm sure they're automated.
 They're just trying every, and it's brute force, uh, login attempts.
 Well, and, you know, site defacing happens all the time.
 I, I have to think too that, you know, the way based on, on, on domestic U.S. politics,
 there is some tendency for these guys to maybe over inflate the threat because they want bigger
 budgets.
 Not like they want.
 They ever do that.
 Of course.
 Not like they would have that would ever happen.
 Yes.
 Which is not to say these things are not possible, you know.
 That's the problem.
 It's hard to assess because we tell, you know, that's hard to assess.
 Yeah.
 I guess that was my point.
 And that's why it's too bad.
 We don't trust our government a little bit more.
 Well, and you know, you could also argue that the U.S. was caught off guard on the morning
 of 9/11 and that since we've done things to make ourselves safer, this guy makes the point
 that it's, it may take something like that in order to get the government to say, oh,
 maybe you guys do need some more money for, for more fancy security and networks and so
 forth.
 There was right after 9/11, of course, there was a cyber security czar and there was a
 lot of attention paid to this.
 I don't know if that, that activity is waned or if it's still part of Homeland Security,
 I imagine it still is.
 I'm sure there's like, you know, a title on a door somewhere, but the question is, how
 much money are they being given?
 It's all a fun.
 I mean, it's all comes down to money, what you're able to afford.
 And, you know, we've heard stories, for example, about how the FBI's network is just horribly
 antiquated.
 Right.
 I mean, just, you know, just, you know, almost punch cards and it's like, okay, well, maybe
 you can get rid of those old copies of word star and word perfect one these days.
 As soon as Jay Edgar Hoover, oh, wait a minute.
 Never mind.
 Yeah.
 Folks, this podcast is sponsored by I want to be a nerd.com.
 That's the folks at nerds on site.
 They are a great group.
 They're growing too, and they need more nerds to service their customers looking for folks
 with competencies and skills in all areas from PC and Mac experts to specialties like
 Cisco and Oracle.
 You name it.
 They need it.
 They're technicians, website designers, programmers, project managers, sales, folks,
 trainers, security experts, antivirus gurus, and more.
 They especially love those nerds who troubleshoot, tear apart and rebuild their own systems in
 their spare time.
 You know who you are nerds are independent contractors.
 You're in business for yourself, but not by yourself.
 And I think that's what I like so much about nerds on site.
 You can focus on your passion, but they handle the burdens of running the business.
 Now in seven countries, the Canada, US, Mexico, England, Australia, South Africa and even Bolivia.
 And if you want to know more, go to I want to be a nerd.com register for a nerds only
 meeting in your area today.
 Good people are people.
 I want to be a nerd.com that's nerds on site.
 We thank them so much for their support for security now.
 They love you, Steve.
 They see one of their own.
 They're good guys.
 Because you mentioned the site that had a video of me and I was curious last week.
 I went there thinking, oh, you know, what's this going to be?
 They tape.
 Yeah.
 And what was cool, it was me telling them the story that I had told to our security now
 listeners before about this guy who was fired because Spinrite saved this cute old lady's
 drive.
 And so I, so, you know, I must have been before I told it on security now that I was up in
 Toronto.
 I think it was.
 You're in Toronto.
 Yes.
 And I told these guys the story.
 And so that was a little short video.
 I don't know.
 It's like five or six minutes of me, you know, waving my hands around the air as I am apt
 to do, telling them the story of, you know, it's funny too, because the first thing they
 said when, when I told them that here, you know, the younger junior, good, good repair
 guy was terminated because he was willing to take like double the time and to run Spinrite
 and recover the data rather than just reformatting that this poor old lady's machine.
 And the first thing these guys, the, the nerds say was, who is he?
 We, you know, we want to hire him.
 We want him to be one of our nerds.
 So, you know, it's the kind of guys they're looking for.
 So it was a fun story.
 It was a perfect story for their site nerds on site.
 I want to be a nerd.com.
 We thank you all for being here and of course, if you want 16 kilobits versions of this show,
 we make them available on Steve site, grc.com.
 We also offer transcripts there of the show so you can read along with Steve and they'll
 be links there to the original document, the cyber warfare document that started this whole
 discussion off.
 That's grc.com.
 That's also where you'll find all of Steve's free security products, including shields
 up and the new secureable and of course, spin right, you've got trouble with your hard drive,
 spin right is the answer.
 grc.com.
 We'll be back next week and talk more about security.
 Okay, Steve?
 Cool.
 Looking forward to a layoff.
 See you then.
 Security now.
 Security now.
