 NetCasts you love, from people you trust.
 Bandwidth for security now is provided by AOL Radio at aol.com/podcasting.
 This is Security Now with Steve Gibson, Episode 81, from March 1st, 2007, hard drive reliability.
 Security Now is brought to you by Astaro, makers of the Astaro Security Gateway, on the web at www.ASTARO.com.
 And by Nerds on site, helping people with technology all over the world, visit iwannabeannurd.com.
 This is the security now I've been waiting for for a while. Leo Laporte here, Steve Gibson is in his laboratory, watching hard drive spin.
 He's been right there, spinning right there, spinning right and spinning wrong, have you turned off all the noise makers?
 Ready to go. Some day I want you to leave him on. It'll be fun, we'll hear a friend Flintstone say Yabba Dabba do every so often in the background.
 That's when you get a new registration for spin right and different sounds for different people's emails.
 Do you have any like rude sounds for anybody?
 No, I've got some friends who have totally gone sound happy. I'll be talking to them on the phone.
 It's sort of like people who have disco music for their ringtone on their phone.
 It's like, what happened to a simple little chime?
 You know, after a long time playing with ringtones, I finally went to the nostalgia ringtone, which is basically a phone ringing.
 And it's not so bad. And nobody looks at me funny when my phone rings, they used to.
 The last thing I had was a call for help theme that really put it over the top. That was it.
 When the phone starts doing a cha-cha all by itself and then keeps on going.
 Meanwhile, some embarrassed person is fumbling through their briefcase or through her purse or something.
 It's like, okay, well, we all know.
 Well, if it's on the table and the vibrates on, it might quite literally be doing the cha-cha right across the table.
 Hey, we want to welcome a new sponsor to the show.
 We're very glad to have them. You had coffee with them when you were up in Toronto last time.
 They're worldwide.
 They have been security now followers from the beginning, Leo.
 I'm so glad. Their name is Nerds on site. Don't laugh.
 Nerds on site and their specialty is helping people with their technologies.
 Now, in the past, you've thought, oh, I would like to get a consultant to come in.
 Somebody would help me troubleshoot my system or help me configure it or set it up.
 But you've wondered, how can I know whether they're any good or not?
 And that's really kind of the problem. That's why you're going to love Nerds on site.
 All Nerds on Nerds on site are independent contractors, but they're certified.
 And they have a University of Nerdology.
 And in fact, they're looking for new Nerds.
 So that's one of the reasons they wanted to buy some ads because they want to tell you that if you want to be a nerd,
 you can. Nerds on site is in Canada, US, Mexico, England, Australia, South Africa and Bolivia.
 Wow.
 And the question I get all the time is, how do I know if my computer has malware or spyware on it?
 And it'd be neat if you were able to say, oh, just call a nerd and they'll come over and fix it for you.
 And somebody who's checking out for you, they have over 250 core competencies ranging from systems,
 architecture, design, I mean, high-end stuff, software development, on-source IT departments to desktop support.
 And even, yes, they'll come to your house residential or small business IT services.
 Whether it's Cisco, Oracle, PC or Mac, they need it.
 Fix it technicians, website designers, programmers, project managers, sales trainers, sales trainers, security experts.
 Another few of those listening, antivirus gurus, just go to iwannabeinnerd.com.
 I want to be a nerd.com.
 And by the way, there's a video there of their coffee with you, Steve.
 I spent about, I think about four hours with them last time I was in Toronto to come up and do the call for help show with Uleo,
 because I had some time and I had never met them person-to-person, although we'd had some interaction in email and in teleconferences.
 That was really fun.
 And there's pictures on there of their cute little red Volkswagen bugs with the nerds on site logo in UK and Australia in South Africa.
 I just think it's neat that they're global.
 This is our first, actually not really, because I guess the star was also a global company.
 That's the neat thing about podcasting.
 We get the global companies.
 Go to iwannabeinnerd.com and you can take the Are You a Nerd test.
 And we know you'll pass.
 And we thank them for supporting security now.
 So before we get into the meat and potatoes of our episode, which is going to be about what, Steve?
 We're going to talk as we promised last week about the implications and results of Google's really interesting study into their findings about the hard drive reliability within their network of hundreds of thousands of hard drives.
 Excellent.
 Excellent.
 That's a really, really neat topic.
 And it's not mainstream internet security or PC security really, but so many people wrote to me and even to you after this Google study in PDF form came out saying, "Oh, would you guys please talk about this?"
 It's like, "Yeah, I don't know.
 We can certainly spend a week on this.
 So that's what we're going to do."
 I think it's fascinating.
 You know, and we should point out, I mean, Steve is a security expert, but really, I know him first, well, first I knew you as the designer of the light pen for the Apple II.
 But after that, I knew you and I've known you for years as a hard drive expert because of spin rights.
 So this is really your area of expertise.
 I will never forget Leo that the episode of, oh, wait, it was the screen savers where you and Kate were standing side by side with a computer and you weren't sure what she was going to be talking about.
 But she had some sort of like a Kate's discoveries segment or something like that.
 And that's when she discovered shields up.
 And so she's talking about this and this really cool site done by Steve Gibson.
 And I think you were like sort of looking off set or something and didn't really hear.
 And then you like realize she was talking about me and you said, "Wait, Steve is doing internet security?
 I thought he was hard drive."
 Yes, exactly.
 It was really fun.
 When did that shift happen for you?
 It was at a point when the company sort of was going along, Spinrite was doing fine.
 And we were setting up an ISDN line to our office for the first time to have that level of connectivity rather than all just having modems.
 And I remember scanning the neighborhood around the IP address we were given.
 And I found all kinds of C drives back in the wide open Windows file sharing days.
 And I thought, "My God, there's no way people know their C drives are on the internet."
 And so I said, "Okay, I got to do something about this."
 And I launched the whole shields up idea.
 That's fantastic.
 Well, we're going to talk about hard drives in a bit.
 But first, let's cover some ARATA, some follow-ups, in fact, there's some very interesting stuff to say about our last show.
 Well, yes.
 In fact, we received a piece of email that reminded me that XP has a default setting.
 Remember, we were talking about this notion of infrastructure networks versus ad hoc networks.
 More time at wireless networks, you can have one with a base station, which is infrastructure.
 But you can also use your laptop or even desktop as a base station in effect, and that's called an ad hoc network.
 Right.
 In fact, Windows refers to it as computer to computer.
 Right.
 To explain to people, I think more what they mean rather than saying ad hoc.
 Right.
 Anyway, the ad hoc networks are a problem.
 And I had seen several security issues relative to this even before the issue came up last week.
 Like, for example, of people getting infected on airplanes because a bunch of travelers are using their laptops.
 And if the laptops are able to connect to each other, there are viruses and types of malware which use ad hoc networks to do cross-computer infiltration.
 So the kind of interesting thing is that that connection is the default.
 It's automatic.
 Yes.
 Thank you, Microsoft.
 It is the default for XP to connect to either type of network, either to an access point or to another computer.
 So what I've done is on the notes page for this episode, episode 81, I'm excited, Leah, where we're heading here towards number 100, the big 100 episodes under our belt of a party.
 So on the notes page, I have a step-by-step instructions showing how you can click on your wireless connector icon down in the windows tray and step through a couple clicks to get to the dialogue where you're able to say, I only want to connect to infrastructure networks, not both ad hoc and infrastructure.
 And it's really the case that this is wrong and that this is one of those things that XP should really be defaulting to infrastructure only, but again, in the interest of compatibility and not having people call Microsoft and ask them why they can't connect their computers together.
 Microsoft has it set so that you can connect to anything, even though most people, I mean, almost all people are connecting to an access point, you know, a so-called base station, rather than wanting to go computer to computer directly without going through a base station.
 Well, let's underscore.
 It's dangerous to just willy-nilly connect to another computer without asking.
 And so you do want to disable this.
 The default is to have it turned on.
 I want to thank Evan Katz.
 I don't know how you found out about this.
 Oh, I think it was Evan.
 Yes.
 From Manhattan who sent me the email and I forwarded it along to you.
 Actually, he sent it to support.
 Oh, I got it from every direction.
 Every address he could think of for you.
 And he talks step by step.
 In fact, it looks like you're using his screenshots.
 He gave us some great screenshots.
 So thank you Evan for that tip now.
 What about Vista?
 Good question.
 I dug around in Vista for about half an hour.
 It's still a frustrating experience for me, Leo, because I'm not using it mainstream myself.
 I don't expect I will for a while, but I could not find a similar thing in Vista.
 Maybe Evan will write to us again and tell us where it is in Vista, although those are
 my screenshots.
 Oh, they're yours.
 I didn't see the one.
 Of course, they look the same, because they're the same dialog, so that's my source of my
 confusion.
 All right.
 Exactly.
 I'll give you credit for that.
 So we don't know in Vista.
 I'd love to hear about that.
 I will dig around a little bit too on my one, because I have a Wi-Fi laptop on Vista, and
 I certainly don't want that on.
 No, it's something that no one should have on, so it is something that we wish XP had
 defaulted to off, and then there wouldn't be this bizarre, as we discussed about it
 last time, this strange free public Wi-Fi, a free public Wi-Fi that is literally jumping
 from machine to machine, because it ends up being enumerated as available networks, and
 then it gets stored in the registry, and then that machine will enumerate it to the next
 one.
 It's not a virus, but it is viral in the way it spreads.
 It's kind of interesting.
 There were two other little articles that I picked up in the SANS newsletter this week
 that I just wanted to share with listeners that I thought would find that interesting,
 and in some cases, distressing.
 The first is interesting, a man is facing prison.
 This was picked up by USA Today had the story.
 It says that the subject of man faces prison for uploading movie to the Internet.
 What happened was this guy's Salvador Nunez Jr., his sister, is an Oscar screener who received
 a copy of -- I had it right here in front of me -- of the Internet -- I'm sorry, of
 the movie fleshed away, the animated fleshed away movie.
 Because she got a screener copy, it had a digital watermark in it.
 She gave it to her brother who unfortunately thought, "Oh, let's share this with everybody
 else."
 So uploaded it to the Internet, and someone sent a note to the authorities who found it
 and tracked it down, were able to backtrack it to her, and he confessed that he had uploaded
 that and one other movie to the Internet.
 So he got caught in a way that was directly trackable due to the fact that there was a
 digital watermark, a unique digital watermark in the copy of the movie that he had received
 from his sister.
 They started doing that last year, the year before, because they had a real problem with
 screener's leaking out.
 Right.
 The other story is worrisome.
 It turns out that law enforcement in Germany -- I was thinking about this again when you
 were talking about how we have a global audience -- law enforcement in Germany is using custom
 malware to infect the computers of people they want to surveil without their knowledge.
 See, now, to me -- well, certainly in the U.S., that would be illegal.
 And to me, that seems really, really creepy.
 It's aggressive.
 And, in fact, the story came to light over the register.com, carried it because a German
 magistrate denied the German police the right to do this.
 They apparently went before the court and said, "You know, this is what we want to do."
 And he says, "No, this is an unreasonable thing for you to ask."
 It turns out that there is a division, however, that is still working.
 It's now called the German Trojan, because it's going to be installed in people's machines
 if the police are able to do this.
 And, apparently, there's a bill that is getting ready to be put through that will make this
 legal, which is, you know, sort of resolve this gray area that it's in right now, and
 allow the German authorities to install this in people's machines.
 I don't know.
 It's not clear to me how they would get it into a machine.
 You know, that problem still needs to get solved if, presuming that it isn't already
 solved.
 But it is a creepy development, the idea that there could be software that is known by authorities
 installed surreptitiously in people's machines, specifically for the purpose of surveilling
 them.
 I can give you a similar example.
 We talked about this week on TWIT, a citizen in British Columbia, a 19-year-old kid who
 wanted to help catch a child molesters, posted a Trojan horse posing as a picture of an underage
 child on several child porn newsgroups, kitty porn newsgroups.
 And for the last few years has been monitoring the people who downloaded that Trojan.
 And, in fact, a judge in your part of the world of Southern California was successfully
 prosecuted using evidence that this kid generated by illegally using a Trojan horse to get into
 the judge's computer now.
 I admire the results, but I can't say I admire the means.
 Well, in fact, I remember there was a group of security people among the me who were talking
 to the attorney general back in the days of the internet worms, when the code read and
 nimdah worms were really being a problem.
 And we were asking whether it was possible to basically fix these machines which had the
 problem.
 Since the IPs of the inbound traffic of the worm could not be spoofed, we had the IPs
 of all the machines that were infected.
 So it was so tempting to create our own inoculation, essentially, for those machines and go and
 remove this software, fix this problem in the machines that were infected.
 And anybody running a honeypot could have collected the IPs of the infected worm transmitting
 machines.
 Of course, the word came back in no uncertain terms that it was absolutely illegal for us
 to make any unauthorized modification to a machine over which we don't have any rights
 at all, even when we're doing something good, something that the owner would almost certainly
 want us to do, fix their machine for them because it's actively broadcasting internet
 worms.
 But no, you know, it's just there's no way that's okay.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Very interesting.
 Very interesting stuff.
 And certainly an ethical issue that we haven't heard the last of.
 Yeah.
 Are you, shall we get to hard drives?
 Sure.
 Any other around it?
 Before we do, I just want to mention that I had a very good experience with a certain
 program this week known as spin right.
 That is so cool.
 Yeah.
 I know you.
 That's all I can say because I forgot my left, lost my serial number and I had burned
 a CD and this is one of the good things you could do with spin right is burn a CD because
 you do want to boot to the spin right CD so that you can be in a DOS when you're doing
 the checking.
 Right.
 And I don't know what I did with my CD and I couldn't find it.
 I don't know.
 You know, and I, I realized later I shouldn't have bugged you.
 I could have gone to the website and, and retrieved my serial number that way.
 Thank you for being very patient with me.
 But the good news is this, the computer that was dying is the one I'm using right now to
 record this.
 I record all the podcasts on.
 It's pretty important computer and it wasn't booting.
 And it said there was something, you know, couldn't find an operating system.
 So I ran spent right on it, ran the long maintenance, you know, the check and the maintenance fix
 overnight on all the drives.
 It's been flawless ever since.
 I just love that.
 Yeah.
 That is so cool.
 So cool.
 I am grateful to you.
 Well, I just thank you so much.
 What it's worth, the e-commerce system that I wrote, of course, in assembly language to,
 to run all of this, if any user holds onto their transaction code that they receive when
 they purchase spin right, that enables them at any time in the future to go back and grab
 a copy of spin right.
 So you know, if they were somewhere else, I mean, you just use a web browser so you could
 even do it if you were away from home and like your, your laptop started giving you trouble.
 And also for people who don't have that written down in their wallet or, you know, are have
 lost it, they can certainly contact our sales email at any time, give us enough information
 to find you in our database.
 And we'll just let you know what your transaction code is and then you're off and away.
 So even people with less, you know, direct connection to me, Leo, than you have are similarly
 able to get themselves, you know, back to their copy of spin right if they don't have
 it when they need it.
 Well, I have a friend that's been writes, it's a GRC.com is the website.
 If you want to read testimonials, S P I N R I T E dot info, I can't recommend it more
 highly.
 The ultimate disc recovery and maintenance utility.
 And I've used it before to save drives.
 This is just the most recent example.
 It's such a great thing to have in your toolkit.
 So Steve, let's speaking of drives while we're on the topic while we're on the topic.
 Now we should say this isn't exactly a security topic, but I think when you have kind of one
 of the foremost experts on hard drives available that it really would be, it's important, it
 behooves us to talk about this Google study, let me just ask right up front.
 When you read this, were you surprised by the results?
 Not one bit.
 One of our favorite expressions at GRC for years has been that smart is dumb.
 I like that you're talking about the smart drive capability built in the hard drives.
 Yes, the self monitoring and reporting technology, S M A R T or I'm sorry, smart monitoring analysis
 and reporting technology.
 The history of the so called smart technology is not well known.
 Back in the early days of the PC, when drives were beginning to become sort of, I want to
 say self aware, you know, like Skynet with Terminator, but when when drives were beginning
 to get intelligent, remember that the earliest drives, you actually had a disk controller
 with a whole bunch of stuff on it.
 And then a one or two cables that went to the drive, sometimes a serial cable and a radial
 cable.
 So you daisy chain one and then you'd have a direct radial cable from the drive to from
 the controller to each of your drives.
 And these drives were really so, you know, they were dumb drives.
 They were, you know, spinning platters, read, write electronics, and in many cases, a stepping
 motor that just stepped the heads in and out.
 And those drives held, you know, all of 10 megabytes or 20 megabytes or, you know, 40
 even of data.
 That was a big day.
 I remember when they when they went from 20 to 40, it's like, wow, yeah, and I was getting
 to R L L and that was a big jump.
 Oh, right.
 Right.
 Right.
 So, so what happened was when drives were dumb like that, there wasn't anything you could
 really do on the drive when drives went to the IDE interface standard.
 What happened was essentially the, well, in fact, ID stands for integrated drive electronics.
 The controller was moved on to the drive that is like a disk controller was moved on to
 the drive so that all of the data flow, the serial data flow off on and off the heads
 and the and the control that was all made local and a, an interface was then created
 that allowed you to use a simple parallel cable down to the motherboard or at that time
 to even a very simple ID controller.
 But the idea was the drive started being smart and had its own microprocessor on it.
 And you know, so now it was sort of autonomous.
 Well, Compaq was the C O M P a Q, of course, was the big leader in the, as you remember,
 in the clone market at the time.
 They were the first people who came up with a clean room, created BIOS.
 That is a, a BIOS clone of the PC of the original IBM PC that had never, where the authors
 of the BIOS had never had any contact with the source code, which IBM published in their
 technical reference manual.
 So in order to avoid any possibility of copyright infringement, Compaq put a bunch of engineers
 and literally locked them up in a room, gave them, and these are people who had never even
 seen the source code for the IBM BIOS, and, but from the BIOS's specification, they wrote
 their own BIOS from scratch.
 So Compaq, of course, took off as a major clone of the IBM PC.
 IDE drives began happening, and they began failing, and what Compaq did was essentially
 they turned around at the drive industry and said, look, I think this was Seagate Quantum
 and Connor peripherals at the time were the three, and Western Digital joined in later.
 Compaq said, look, we're going to tell you what you have to do.
 Well, the drive manufacturers were not excited about being told what they were going to do
 by Compaq, but Compaq's purchasing power was king at the time.
 I mean, Compaq was buying so many drives that the manufacturer said, well, okay, what do
 you want?
 And Compaq said, we need some way of knowing what's going on inside the drive, because
 as the drives became intelligent, that allowed them to hide what was going on inside.
 And so Compaq felt like, wait a minute, we don't know what's happening now because there's
 this intelligence in the drive that has created sort of an abstraction of a hard drive storage.
 And of course, that's even more true these days when drives are like self relocating
 sectors and doing all kinds of stuff autonomously, they really do present this opaque wall.
 So Compaq said, you need to give us a way to know what's going on behind the scenes
 in the drive.
 Well, so this smart specification, SMART, was created to allow means for the drive to publish
 some information about itself.
 The problem is that in order to get the manufacturers to agree and they were not happy about this,
 the specification had to be left very loose.
 You know, it'd be like, well, we'd like you to tell us sort of like, give us some health
 parameters that when they, when they go lower, that's worse.
 And when they go higher, that's better.
 And you know, and Compaq tried to nail the manufacturers down to a tighter specification,
 but it just wouldn't work.
 So what we've ended up with even today, you know, what 15 years later is a specification,
 which is sorrowfully weak.
 And in fact, the Google paper talks about this in several instances where they're seeing
 no uniform meaning behind many of these SMART parameters across a large install base of
 hard drives.
 Well, they even go farther.
 They say a lot of the failed drives had no smart errors at all.
 Well, now that's sort of a different issue that that's the issue of how effective is
 all of this as opposed to, you know, what is what is all of this?
 Yeah.
 And of course, you know, that certainly that that's a perfect segue Leo, because certainly
 the goal of SMART was to allow software running in the machine to keep an eye on what the
 drive was doing and predict hard drive failures.
 That was the whole idea.
 The problem is, and in fact, the reason that we've always used the slogan SMART is dumb
 at GRC is, you know, we see dead drives all the time that had that's where the SMART system
 says, ah, everything's fine.
 So it's all working problem exactly that they drive can die spontaneously.
 And while SMART is completely happy and sees nothing going wrong.
 At the same time, there are drives which look like they're on their last throws from a standpoint
 of the SMART data that just keep on going for years.
 So the problem really, and this is what Google's findings were at, well, actually Google found
 a lot of things, but relative to SMART, they found a very disappointing lack of correlation
 between, well, based on extensive statistical analysis of over 100,000 drives within their
 system, a very weak analysis correlation, yeah.
 Thank you.
 Yes.
 A correlation of what SMART showed to the actual failure of the drives.
 The reason I was pausing there is I was trying to find the exact reference.
 It said in the study, it says, and I'm reading from their report on the predictive power
 of SMART parameters, it says, even how strongly correlated some SMART parameters were found
 to be within a hot with higher failure rates, we were hopeful that accurate predictive failure
 models based on SMART signals could be created.
 Predictive models are very useful and that they can reduce service disruption due to
 failed components and allow for the more efficient schedule maintenance process to replace the
 less efficient parens reactive repair procedures.
 In fact, one of the main motivations for SMART was to provide enough insight into disk drive
 behavior to enable such models to be built, which is a long-winded way of saying, we hope
 that SMART would allow us to know when a drive was going to die before it does.
 They weren't alone, I think we all hoped that.
 Yeah.
 But I think we all knew anybody who had any experience with drives, and I've said this
 for a long time, knew that really SMART didn't seem to have that kind of ability.
 Oh, and if it did, we'd all be using it a lot more than we are because, you know, I mean,
 it's there, but it's not highly used.
 And just to finish this one thought here from the report, reading from the report, it says,
 "After our initial attempts to derive such models yield relatively unimpressive results,
 we turn to the question of what might be the upper bound of the accuracy of any model based
 solely on SMART parameters.
 Our results are surprising, if not somewhat disappointing, out of all failed drives, over
 50% of them have no count in any of the four strongest SMART signals, namely scan errors,
 relocation count, offline relocation, and probational count.
 In other words, models based only on those signals can never predict more than half of
 the failed drives."
 So essentially what Google found is that many drives were failing, more than half of
 theirs were failing, where nothing showed up at all in the SMART subsystem, and also exactly
 the reverse was happening, is that SMART was showing things where drives never failed.
 There were things they found, for example, when they would ask the SMART system to scan
 the drive.
 If an error was found during that scanning, the drive was 39 times more likely to fail
 in the next 60 days than all other drives, except that it turns out 39 times more likely
 wasn't predictive enough to say, "Okay, we should replace a drive," because it turns
 out that there were lots of drives that had scan errors that never failed.
 So it's basically ... It's funny too, because in Spinrite 6, I incorporated, as you probably
 saw when you were running Spinrite just recently, Leo, I incorporated a real-time monitor of
 the whole SMART subsystem.
 Now there are interesting things that you can see.
 Spinrite will show you these SMART parameters being driven down.
 One of the things that makes Spinrite different than just scanning passively is it's reading
 and writing and writing to the drive, essentially really working the surface.
 So rather than just being a read-only scan, Spinrite is a full read-write stress that
 inverts all the bits, reads them back, re-inverts them, writes them back, reads them back.
 So it's basically checking the entire service aggressively.
 So what's really interesting is that we'll often see that the SMART parameters which
 are normally running okay on weak drives, they will be sort of these health parameters,
 get driven down for a while while Spinrite is running on the drive, and then gradually
 recover.
 If they don't go critical, it's probably not something to worry about.
 But if you were watching it happen, you could compare this behavior of your drive to its
 behavior, for example six months from now, and if it started seeing me like it was worse,
 then you'd get some qualitative sense that the drive was not doing very well.
 So anyway, it's unfortunately just the SMART stuff by itself as Google found and as all
 of our experience has shown just isn't useful enough.
 And imagine software saying, oops, you need to replace your drive.
 Well, who's going to believe that?
 I mean, you know, certainly in a mission critical situation where you absolutely can't have
 a drive fail, maybe that's interesting, except that what Google found is also that there
 was some infant mortality behavior.
 That is, they found that younger drives just installed had a higher failure rate for the
 first three and then even six months, then drives that had been there for a year.
 So the idea would be was that, you know, newly minted drives could have something wrong
 with them that had sort of gotten through quality control and manufacturing that would
 manifest to the detriment of the drive during its first few months of use.
 After that time, you get to a point where, okay, the drive is now sort of matured and
 it's going to give us a nice long life.
 What designers have always assumed was that the statistical curve would look, it's called
 a bathtub curve where it's high initially, it drops down after you move out of the infant
 mortality period.
 Then maybe hopefully for five or six years, you have relatively low failure rate.
 And then at some point, later on, just due to the drives aging and fatigue and mechanical
 wear and tear, the reliability begins falling again and the rate of failure goes back up,
 thus the other side of this so-called bathtub curve.
 What Google found, and this was what we briefly discussed last week and it's what's so disturbing
 is that in fact, drives two years old were experiencing suddenly much higher failure rates
 than drives one year old and three years old were even more.
 You may remember, I think it was 8.6% annual failure rate meaning two out of every 25 drives
 is failing every year at three years old.
 Well, it's kind of still a bathtub curve, it's just a narrower bathtub than we would
 have been.
 It's a one year bathtub instead of like five or six years, exactly.
 This is the biggest study ever done of hard drives, it must be.
 Well, yes, there have been lots of littler studies that actually filed during the same
 conference also in the fifth Usenix conference was another paper and we've got a PDF link
 to it also on our notes page for episode 81.
 You guys, researchers at Carnegie Mellon University, CMU, studied very much the same
 sort of data.
 They didn't use their own 100,000 drive data set, but they got maintenance data from a
 number of very large ISPs that were willing to make this available.
 They did a similar study and their conclusions were very much the same.
 One of the things they found was that they were talking about how manufacturers would
 quote a one million hours mean time to fail and MTBF or MTTF, mean time to fail or mean
 time before failure.
 Well, a million hours equates to 0.88% annual failure rate.
 You may remember that that Seagate spec I referred to, which surprised me, it was for
 a Barracuda 7200.9 drive that quoted a 0.34% annualized failure rate.
 So anyway, what the CMU guys found was almost the same as what Google found.
 These guys were not looking at smart data because they weren't doing real time smart
 capture in their whole infrastructure.
 The way Google was, they were just looking at basically aggregating a big statistical
 study of maintenance reports.
 But reading from their conclusions, they say large scale installation field usage appears
 to differ widely from nominal data sheet MTTF conditions.
 The field replacement rates of systems were significantly larger than we expected based
 on data sheet MTTF, which sort of is to say, oh, you mean manufacturers are not telling
 us the flating the numbers.
 They also say 0.88%.
 It was as much as 13%.
 That's close.
 Yes.
 That's close.
 I mean, substantially higher.
 They say for drives less than five years old, field replacement rates were larger than
 what the data sheet MTTF suggested by a factor of two to 10.
 Wow.
 Five to eight year old drives, field replacement rates were a factor of 30 higher than what
 the data sheet MTTF suggested.
 Basically, this is sort of corresponding, unfortunately, with people's real world experience.
 You just had a drive that wouldn't boot on you.
 Every week or so, I share a real life experience from one of our customers who turns the computer
 on and it says, I'm not a computer anymore.
 You have an operating system not found or whatever happened to me.
 I read the number somewhere.
 I think it was 350 million drives were manufactured in 2006.
 We have, obviously, there's hard drives all over the place.
 Coming back to your point about how this is not really about security, I guess my feeling
 as well, certainly that's the case, but there's almost nothing more important to computer
 users than their hard drives.
 I mean, in fact, that's a single number one cause of data loss is not hackers, it's dying
 hard drives.
 Yeah.
 Exactly.
 Can we infer anything else or learn anything else from these studies?
 I know that Google looked at temperature, for instance.
 Yes.
 That was really interesting too, my, my wisdom has always been that, that temperature matters.
 I've seen drives failing due to high temperature conditions and I think that's what was wrong
 with my drive.
 It's a shuttle case and it's a very small, tight case and almost immediately spin rights
 said, Hey, you're, you've exceeded a hundred fifty degrees.
 I'm going to stop.
 Yes.
 In fact, in fact, it's really interesting.
 That's one of the things that laptop users often report with spin right.
 I actually have a photo that was sent to me a couple of weeks ago of a laptop running
 spin right in a refrigerator.
 Somebody took out, not recommend by the way, they, they, they took out all their food and
 a couple of shelves and they stuck the laptop in the refrigerator.
 The problem is, I mean, laptops are notoriously troubled about cooling.
 Right.
 I mean, I'm amazed when I, when you, when you put a laptop on your lap, literally how hot
 these things get.
 Well, I bought 7,200 RPM drive in my most recent Dell and that thing before it even starts
 working really is already blowing very hot air out the side, you know, the fans are working
 hard and I'm sure the laptop has a hard drive has a lot to do with it.
 Yes, it certainly does.
 And so what happens is it turns out it's the seeking of the drive.
 What, what, when a drives head actuator is not moving all the only real power consumption
 you have is the relatively steady state spin of the drive, but, but from an engineering
 standpoint or, or from a physics standpoint, you, you, when you need to move the head very
 quickly to another cylinder, you need to mechanically accelerate the head up to speed.
 It flies across the cylinders and then you need to stop it immediately.
 So what you're doing is you are briefly applying very high forces laterally to the head in
 order to get it to move it from a rest state into motion and back.
 So anything, even like defragging, for example, which is putting the drive through a great
 deal of, of exercise will, will increase the power consumption of the drive, but also a
 lot of heat, the, the energy that is dumped into the drive comes out acoustically, thus
 you hear, you know, you actually hear the drive doing things and thermally, it is, is
 the, is the other way that the energy is converted from electrical energy.
 So you end up seeing that the drives temperature will increase.
 So spin right using the smart system is constantly keeping an eye on the drive temperature to
 alert people that, you know, hey, you've got a problem here with your drive getting beyond
 manufacturer spec.
 And when spin right says it's a problem, it really is.
 I mean, I set that to the upper limit of, of manufacturers, like safe running conditions
 for a drive.
 So if anyone can do, if, if spin right says your drive is running too hot, anything you
 can do to move more air across it or, or, or keep it cool, just, I mean, for normal daily
 use to would be good.
 Yeah.
 In fact, that's what I did is I opened the case up and I have a fan blowing air from
 the window across the now also now here's the problem with Google's study, which they
 acknowledge and with, for example, quote, my common wisdom about temperature.
 And that is that their study was based on many years of aggregate data collecting during
 which time new drives came along, new makes and models and manufacturer mixes changed.
 I mean, the, the most potentially interesting thing Google could have told us and deliberately
 didn't.
 They referred to it as proprietary information was to show us a breakdown of drive failures
 by manufacturer who would not, who would not kill to have that information.
 You know, I have my secret suspicions of, of who would have been top of the list for,
 for drive failures, but anyway, well, you've got a database.
 I mean, you know, yeah, I never buy Western digital drives.
 Oh, that's funny.
 Cause I do.
 And see, and the reason I, the reason I hedged and I didn't offer that initially Leo is I
 have said that before and I've had people say, wait a minute, I've never had a WD drive.
 No, you know, I've put Western digital Raptors in every single new computer.
 And our, our web servers running on Raptors in raid five, I've got three Raptors on each
 web server.
 Well, and the Raptor is a high and WD drive.
 I pay a lot more for it.
 Yeah.
 Yes.
 I do, I do think that that although the Carnegie Mellon, the Carnegie Mellon study, the CMU
 study did not show that SCSI drives were less error prone than SATA drives or than fiber
 channel drives.
 So they did take a look at, by interface type, what drives tended to failure more?
 You wouldn't expect the interface to impact that, would you?
 Although my sense again has been that SCSI drives were higher end, more expensive and
 just, you know, they were built with a little more love and care than, than, you know, push
 them out through the consumer retail channel, you know, IDE and, and, and SATA drives.
 But here's my point.
 My feeling is that certainly this is the case in the last five to seven years.
 Drive technology is, is clearly a moving target.
 These drives are changing internally to such a degree that I'm not really sure that a study
 taken over a long period of years really tells us anything about today's drives, because
 for example, the Google study did show that older drives showed more of a temperature
 susceptibility that is more of a problem to temperature than newer drives.
 So you, you might assume then, first of all that, okay, maybe as any drives get older,
 they become more temperature susceptible, though I don't know why that would be the case, or
 you could assume that newer drive technologies are less, are always going to be less susceptible
 to temperature than older drive technologies were.
 So for example, five years from now, a repeat of this study on a more on a, on a, on like
 a next generation population base of drives would yield different results.
 They said that was actually the greatest, the most surprising result of the study was
 that temperature didn't seem to have much to do with failure rate.
 Yes, and, and that had, and what's bizarre is it turns out that the failure rates were
 higher for cooler drives.
 There was actually, you had to get the drives very hot before the, the reliability finally
 spiked in, in, in the negative or running drives very cold.
 They just didn't seem to like that, which of course is not much of a problem because
 they heat up pretty quickly.
 Right.
 Right.
 So a very interesting study and as Steve mentioned, there are copies of this study and the CMU
 study from Bianca Schroeder and Garth Gibson on his website.
 So you can read this.
 This is all from FAST '07, the fifth usenix, usenix conference on file and storage technologies,
 which just happened over Valentine's Day weekend.
 Right.
 So, you know, the, my takeaway from all of this, I mean, it's, it would be very cool if
 we could tell people before their drive was going to fail with a high degree of reliability
 that it was going to.
 On the other hand, if you cry wolf, you know, once or twice, no one's ever going to believe
 you again.
 Right.
 And, you know, and, and, you know, the common wisdom is, of course, back up your data.
 And, and so, you know, where, where, where I am with, with, with spin ride and where we've
 always been basically is saying to people, look, the best thing you can do is keep a current
 back up.
 I mean, that's really your, your only way of knowing that, that your data is going to
 be safe.
 But people, you know, never get around to it or their back up to a few months old and
 they did some really important stuff in the last few months that they have to have back.
 So, you know, the good news is with spin ride, there, there's a way of, of at least turning
 back that clock a little bit, maybe getting, you know, if it doesn't completely fix your
 drive, it'll get you back going again long enough to pull your critical data off.
 Well, well, you were, you remember what Hal 9000 said in, in 2001.
 I would recommend that we put the unit back in operation and let it fail.
 So even, even there, even 2001, that was a recommendation.
 Yeah.
 That's pretty much the way it is.
 And certainly you're not going to pull a drive just because smart says that would be
 a big mistake.
 Main thing is back up for crying out loud.
 Just make back up.
 Right, and more often than not smart won't tell you that a drive is failing and it does
 anyway.
 Yeah.
 Well, we thank you for summarizing.
 I think it's fascinating stuff.
 And I hope you folks don't mind that we diverted a little bit from our security topic, although
 as Steve pointed out, there's nothing more important than keeping your data secure and
 certainly your hard drive is the front line of defense there.
 We are brought to you as always by the good folks at a star owe, the makers of the star
 owe security gateway, they just announced version seven, some significant new improvements
 who talked about them before things like transmit transparent email, encryption and
 decryption, which means your entire enterprise can be using email encryption without having
 to worry about teaching everybody how to do it individually.
 It's just fantastic.
 Also, you'll find that signatures are enabled using S mine or open PGP standards, I use
 S mine myself.
 It's great.
 Of course, I have an historic gateway.
 That's, that's why inbound mail is also automatically decrypted.
 They've got remote access via SSL.
 That's significant.
 You've got IP sec L2 TP over IP sec, PPTP tunneling with SSL makes it so much easier to enable.
 And of course, all sorts of useful things, including scalability by clustering, the usual
 anti spam firewall intrusion detection, anti phishing, I mean, it's just really superb unit.
 And you could try it absolutely free by calling a star owe or visiting them online at a S T
 A R O dot com or call eight seven seven the number four A S T A R O to schedule a free
 trial of the star of security gateway now in version seven and your business, by the
 way, you can now.
 Because I think really fantastic news download.
 If you're a non commercial user, not only, you could always download the A S G software
 because it's open source and free, but for non commercial use.
 But now they're going to include all subscriptions and a star up to date.
 This was used to be a 79 euro up her year subscription.
 Now that's absolutely free.
 Just another reason to visit A S T A R O dot com.
 We thank him so much for their support of security now.
 So I'm going to keep my western digital Raptors, Steve Gibson.
 I'm sorry.
 That's okay.
 Yeah.
 Well, and you know, my favorite drives were all we when I decided to because I had several
 WD drives die on me and I thought, okay, you know, when am I going to learn a lesson?
 I switched over to quantum and I've loved quantum drives for years and Max door bought
 quantum.
 And then as you know, probably recently, Seagate bought Max door.
 Right.
 So all the same now.
 It's really two companies, basically, I guess, and again, there are, yeah, there are,
 well, and what I think Hitachi bought IBM's drive business right there.
 Oh, do they?
 Yeah.
 So, yeah.
 So, you know, the problem is drives are phenomenally complex.
 There's so much to go wrong with them.
 Yes.
 That, you know, they fail from time to time.
 And I should mention that the drive that I had problems with was in fact not the western
 digital Raptor.
 It was, I think it was a Max door drive.
 The western digital has been working in there flawlessly.
 And I have one in my Mac, one of my piece.
 I am every machine I just buy a Raptor because I like, now, tell me if I'm wrong, but I believe
 this could be a completely fallacious belief that the 10,000 RPMs makes a difference.
 It also has a 16 meg cache in speed, right?
 Yeah.
 Oh, in speed.
 Absolutely.
 There you will get definitely be getting a transfer rate performance because you're literally
 you're spinning the, you're spinning the drive faster.
 So not only do you have a higher data rate, but you have a lower latency because it's
 going to take less time for the sector transfer to begin.
 Yeah.
 That's why it's not my boot drive.
 It's my media editing drive, right?
 We record to the Raptor and we edit on the Raptor because I want all the speed I can
 get.
 Well, again, I didn't mean to bad mouth.
 I know there are, there are other people who I who really like western digital drives.
 You know, so it's just like, you know, to each your own.
 It's like people have, have cars they like and cars they don't like.
 I think also there's probably true across the board.
 The cheaper drives are going to be less reliable, higher density cheaper drives.
 Oh, one thing I did pick up when I was doing the research for today's show, although obviously
 I live and breathe this stuff.
 So I knew a lot of it.
 But one of those studies talked about the lower reliability for a higher head count.
 And so there is the feeling I had had intuitively that smaller drives were more reliable.
 But we thought it might be aerial density.
 It turns out to be the heads that matter.
 Well, yes, because the smaller drives only have a single platter.
 And what they're doing is they're adding platters, which is why drives jump typically
 by, for example, by 80 gigs or in some cases, 40 gigs, it'll go 40, 80, 120, 160.
 Because they're actually adding, they're adding surfaces to the drive.
 And it turns out, of course, that, you know, the more of that stuff you've got in there,
 any one of them failing will bring the drive down.
 So the fewer you have, the more reliable it is.
 Excellent.
 Good to know.
 That's why we always listen to Steve Gibson.
 If you want copies of the studies and more information, including information on how
 to turn off ad hoc networking, and anybody with any money using Wi-Fi with XP absolutely
 should do this.
 You want to go to our notes page and follow that.
 Yep.
 That's at grc.com.
 That's where you also find 16 kilobits versions of this show for the bandwidth challenge.
 And Lane's fantastic transcriptions, by the way, Steve, you've inspired me, we're going
 to do a deal with a company to do transcriptions in many of our other shows too, because I
 think people really do enjoy reading along often with the show.
 I get a lot of great feedback about it, and of course, it makes it also text searchable.
 So Google and other search engines are able to find those articles and then refer people
 to them.
 Yeah.
 I think it's a good thing.
 rc.com, that's where you also find, of course, Steve's free security programs like Secureable
 and Shield's Up, and his day job, SpinRight, great, wow, look at what you're making as
 you tell him.
 We've wrapped it up.
 We'll see you next time on Security Now.
 Sounds great, Leo.
 Security Now.
 Security Now.
