 (upbeat music)
 This is Security Now, episode eight for October 6th, 2005.
 DDOS attacks.
 (upbeat music)
 - Steve Gibson from grc.com is on the line with Google Talk.
 Hello, Steve and Irvine, how are you today?
 - Hey Leo, great to be back.
 - This is something you're an expert in perforce.
 Denial of service attacks because you've been the victim.
 - Well, and how?
 It was a number of years ago, some dialogue in our news groups
 upset some young hackers who had access to one
 of these fleets of zombies which are infecting
 end user machines and just blew me and grc.com completely
 off the internet for a number of hours.
 And it was a real problem for me.
 That was my real first, literally first hand experience
 being on the receiving end of a distributed denial
 of service attack.
 - Let's first explain what a simple denial
 of service attack is.
 Well, the idea is any kind of packet traffic
 which can cause problems for the receiving end
 can create what's called a denial of service.
 The term meaning of course that whatever service
 you're trying to get is being denied you by someone
 for whatever reason who wants that to happen.
 So for example, in the old days, websites used to have
 their web servers brought down by people doing something
 called a sin flood, S-Y-N, a sin packet is the first packet
 of a TCP connection.
 When a user's browser for example wants to connect
 to a web server, it'll send a sin packet.
 The web server allocates some resources to get ready
 for this connection, sends back what's called
 a sin act packet and then a final act packet
 is returned to the server.
 What that does is that verifies the communication path
 between these two endpoints, the user's browser
 and the server and it sort of establishes the communication.
 Well, if the browser or the an end user being malicious
 were to do nothing but send sin packets just by themselves,
 the server would keep allocating all these resources
 thinking that all these connections like,
 wow, I've become really popular all of a sudden
 as if all these users were wanting to connect to it.
 Well, what happened is that before long
 that server would run out of resources.
 It would sort of be like creating a memory leak.
 It would burn up all the memory that it had allocated
 for accepting connections and then regular users
 who were actually trying to connect
 would send their own sin packet
 which would end up getting dropped or ignored
 because the server was thought that it was already
 too busy receiving real connections.
 So that was sort of the original denial
 of service attack against a web server.
 So let me put it in baby talk.
 In baby talk, somebody basically sends so many requests
 to your phony requests but requests to your website
 that you spend all your bandwidth trying to handle them
 and can't handle legitimate incoming traffic.
 Well, actually that's the second generation
 denial of service attack.
 This first one was a actually consumed resources
 on the server so that the server was no longer able
 to accept connections.
 Oh, so the sin is simply setting up a server connection
 and that just uses up all the memory
 and the processor bandwidth on the server itself.
 Exactly, it uses a memory and processor bandwidth
 not the connection bandwidth.
 Got it. And so what was really interesting.
 The upshots the same though, the server's too busy,
 doesn't have the resources to respond to normal traffic.
 How exactly, however, it's not the bandwidth
 which has been consumed.
 It's the resources on the server.
 And the reason that, well, we'll see
 why that's an important distinction in a second
 because for example, just one guy sending sin packets
 could have brought down and did bring down historically
 some major websites, just one computer sending sin packets.
 I remember this happening to Yahoo, some years ago.
 And that's what that was, exactly.
 Now, what happened was servers got smarter.
 Server started being this denial of service attack aware
 so that they would, if their queue of pending connections
 got full, they'd start throwing away the oldest ones
 that hadn't come back and completed
 that three-way handshake.
 And so basically, systems got resilient
 or able to protect themselves against this kind of attack.
 - How many different sin requests would you need
 to bring down as something like Yahoo?
 - Only a few thousand.
 - Not that, so it's an easy thing
 for an individual to do from a single computer.
 - Yes, now once upon a time it was an easy thing.
 Now, virtually all servers are hardened
 against that kind of attack.
 - So they just have a queue
 and they just start dumping stuff at the bottom
 as new stuff comes in from the top.
 - Exactly.
 So what then happened was we went from a DOS attack
 to a DDOS attack to a distributed denial of server's attack.
 And this is where this notion of zombie fleets come in.
 The idea being that malware has infected
 a large population of computers, maybe a hundred,
 maybe a thousand.
 There are some fleets that are apparently tens of thousands
 of end user computers that are slave to a single
 or a small group of zombie masters.
 In this scenario, this large group of computers
 are all told to attack a single end user,
 whether it's a website or an individual.
 And so what happens is this distributed set of machines
 all start sending traffic.
 It doesn't even have to be, in this case, a sin packet.
 And in fact, I was not attacked with a sin flood.
 I was attacked just with good old pings,
 just enough ping packets, the so-called ICMP,
 that what that did was it flooded my bandwidth
 so that my connection to the internet was congested.
 And that's a scenario that you were talking about
 where if enough of these several hundred machines
 were all pinging my web server at the same time,
 then normal bandwidth trying to access my website
 was no longer able to get there.
 - So the difference is they choked the pipe, not the server.
 - That's exactly right.
 - The ping of death.
 - So anywhere that you had a choke point in the bandwidth
 and it might have even been like a router upstream of me
 because the idea is that packets are flooding in
 from all over the internet and they're sort of converging.
 You can think of it as a convergence down to a single point.
 And in fact, an analogy that I've used is
 if you put your hand out in the sunlight,
 it feels fine, it's warm, hands were meant to handle sunlight.
 That's no problem.
 But if you take a magnifying glass
 and hold it over your hand, focusing essentially
 that same amount of sunlight down to a single point,
 suddenly you start seeing a little smoke
 and some charred flesh because that same amount
 of sunlight now focus down to a single point.
 Similarly, internet traffic, if it's focused
 to a single point, all being directed at a single target,
 that target's just gone, it's off the internet.
 - So how do we fight a distributed denial of service attack?
 Can we just ignore pings?
 - Well, what happens is that, well, in fact,
 that was one of my first defenses, was I asked Vario.
 I said, you know, it's nice for be able to ping me
 and to run a trace route to see if GRC is around.
 But gee, I'm being attacked, I'm being flooded
 with all this ICMP traffic, let's block that.
 And so Vario, my supplier at the time, blocked that
 and prevented the attack from getting to my server.
 The problem is that now, and this is really a problem today,
 these tools have become increasingly sophisticated
 so that attacks then started using this TCP traffic,
 the so-called SIN packets.
 Well, I can't and couldn't block those
 because those were the packets that valid users,
 you know, valid users didn't need to ping me
 or to do a trace route.
 They needed to connect their browsers to my web server.
 And to do that, they needed to use this TCP SIN packet.
 So I was unable to filter those
 or to have my ISP block those
 to keep those from getting to my computer
 or nobody would be able to.
 - You could block them, but you're off the net, yeah.
 - Exactly, we're off the net again.
 - So how many different servers are we talking about
 in a distributed denial of service attack?
 - Well, I've seen small, small zombie or bot armies
 are several hundred, maybe four or five hundred
 and they even get up to the several thousands.
 - Could you set some sort of automation
 that when it saw a certain number of SIN packets
 from a single IP address that it said,
 we're gonna block that IP address for five minutes
 or 10 minutes?
 - Well, now that's another good point,
 is the other thing that these packets are doing
 is that they're spoofing their source IP.
 When a legitimate packet comes to a server
 or to an end user, it identifies who sent it
 that is by IP address and what its destination is.
 The destination IP gets it to you.
 The source IP is the IP to which you send the return traffic.
 So the packet has to have both in these denial
 of service attacks.
 The source IP is being randomized on purpose
 so that you really don't know if it's legitimate or not.
 - You couldn't block anything.
 - So you may never see two packets from the same source IP.
 - This can be done on zombie computers
 thanks to the raw socket support
 that was built in the Windows XP.
 - That's exactly right.
 - I mean, raw sockets exists on Unix and Linux and so forth
 but because Windows XP is so prevalent
 and a zombie attack has got to take over a bunch
 of unsophisticated computers,
 they make a natural platform for that.
 Is it better now that Microsoft's taken out raw sockets?
 - Well, it's better except that we still have the ICMP attack
 and one of the things that I've received
 a bunch of questions about is what does an end user do
 when they're attacked?
 It's one thing for like major websites to be attacked
 but for example, end users will be involved
 in an online chat or an online conference
 or maybe they're like doing online gaming.
 Whenever a bunch of people are hooked to a game server,
 their IP has to be known.
 That is the IP address of everyone on this game server
 needs to be known 'cause that's how the game server
 is able to exchange traffic with you.
 So what can happen is that one way or another
 for whatever reason, somebody upsets somebody else
 on the internet, you know, they get pissed off
 because they're blasting them
 or they say something that upsets somebody else
 and before they know it, they're now under attack
 and it actually does happen all the time.
 I've end users who have one way or another
 upset somebody else on the internet find themselves,
 an end user, a single person,
 the victim of a denial of service attack.
 Basically, they're just blasted off the internet.
 - Many people have asked me about this.
 It happens a lot with instant messenger clients
 where they'll get flooded with a lot of requests to message
 or yeah, a game server, you could get pinged to death.
 There are all sorts of ways to do this.
 Is there a way to protect yourself?
 - Well, there really isn't.
 You don't have the ability to filter, you know,
 you can't call AOL and say, hey, AOL,
 I want you to block this stuff from my connection.
 - Well, you can turn off pings in the router though, right?
 - Well, yes, the problem is by the time it comes
 to the router, it's already clogged your connection.
 - 'Cause your connection is upstream with you, yeah.
 - This connection clogging is the real problem
 and in fact, it's one of my complaints
 with router manufacturers and some residential firewall
 manufacturers who say, on the box,
 that this will protect users from denial of service attacks.
 That's the other question that I get a lot,
 is people saying, hey, should I buy this router
 that'll protect me from a denial of service attack?
 It won't.
 - Well, it technically is protecting your router
 from the denial of service attack
 and what's inside the network,
 but it doesn't protect you upstream, so it doesn't matter.
 - Well, it's not a lie, it's just that it's ineffective.
 - What the router can do is the router can see
 that there's a whole bunch of traffic
 that is being aimed at one of the computers behind the router.
 The only thing it can do is to block that traffic.
 - But the traffic's still coming down your pipe.
 It's just getting blocked. - Exactly, right.
 - So it's not like the computer can still be accessed,
 the computer is not being attacked,
 but it's also off the internet.
 - I mean, it's got no connectivity
 'cause the router had to shut off any traffic
 going to that computer.
 The only way it could protect it is to disconnect it.
 - Well, is the only solution not to piss off people
 in games or what?
 I mean, that really is the truth, Leo.
 That's the only thing you can do.
 Now, the other approach is to somehow,
 if possible, change your IP.
 It's trivial for a dial-up user to change their IP
 because every time you connect to the internet
 through a modem, you're gonna be assigned a new IP.
 It's much less easy if you're a DSL or broadband user.
 - This is interesting.
 It means you probably shouldn't have a static IP address
 unless you've got a web server or some other reason to do it.
 - Well, yes.
 And in fact, if you disconnect your router
 from your cable modem, or even more significantly,
 maybe unplug your cable modem, say that you're an end user,
 you've upset somebody on the internet
 for whatever reason in an IM chat
 or on online gaming or something.
 And now you suddenly, your lights on constantly,
 you've lost your connection to the internet.
 If you disconnect completely,
 that is, you're not just your computer from the router,
 but you wanna actually unplug the router,
 probably power down the cable modem and wait a while.
 - Don't do it right away because they'll just give you
 the same IP address, right?
 - Yes, that's exactly what happens.
 The router identifies itself by its MAC address.
 Now, that's one other thing you can do
 is many routers now allow you to either use the router's
 own MAC address or to specify a MAC address.
 That's done because some cable providers
 lock your subscription to the MAC address of your computer.
 So the router needs to be able to clone the MAC address.
 If your provider is not requiring
 that you not change your MAC address, you can change it.
 And that will trick your ISP
 into allocating a different IP address for you
 when you reconnect to the internet.
 And the point is, these attacks are not aimed at you
 that like your equipment in any particular way,
 they're always aimed at your IP.
 So if you can arrange to change your IP address,
 either by disconnecting completely for a few hours,
 when you reconnect you'll probably get a new IP.
 Or if you can trick your router
 into pretending to be a different router
 by changing its MAC address,
 then again, your ISP will give you a new IP,
 basically a clean IP.
 - They're not going to want to do this, of course,
 because it's not helping them.
 They're just gonna give that IP,
 the bad IP to somebody else, and the problem
 will just be spread around, so.
 - Well, in fact, that's something that happens also.
 Sometimes users will hook up to their broadband provider,
 get a new IP, and that IP is under attack
 from the person who had it before, they were under attack.
 Now you get a new IP.
 Or, for example, sometimes I know that it may be
 that the user before was very active with file sharing.
 This was happening a lot in the Napster and the Kazadez,
 where you'd get a new IP,
 and suddenly you were getting all this inbound traffic
 from other peer-to-peer users
 who thought you had the file that they wanted,
 trying to get the file from you,
 because whoever it was who had the IP before,
 that's what they were doing, and now you've got their IP.
 - This sounds like something we have to solve
 in the long run, that there's a structural flaw here.
 - It is a mess.
 - There's no solution, though.
 - The problem is this has all sort of evolved over time.
 These are very new problems compared to the technology
 of the internet, which has now, of course,
 a vast infrastructure keeping it from changing.
 - So the bottom line is try not to annoy anybody
 on the internet, don't attract attention.
 If you can change your IP address,
 it's probably a good idea to change it periodically.
 Maybe look for an internet service provider
 that gives you that capability,
 and if they have a large enough pool of addresses,
 you should be able to report a problem with an address,
 and they could pull it off the shelf,
 put it on the shelf for a while,
 and pull it out of the circulation.
 - I would say that in general,
 if for people who are really security conscious,
 if they can disconnect their cable modem
 and their router, power down the router,
 just from time to time,
 maybe if you know you're not gonna be using your computer
 like all day Sunday,
 just turn the power off on your cable modem and your router,
 let them sit for a day.
 Chances are when you turn them on at the end of the day,
 or the next day, they'll come up with a new IP,
 and it's just sort of a good idea
 to change it from time to time.
 It's really not the case that your IP
 can ever be super stealthful and secret,
 because, for example, most people will find
 that their email address contains their IP,
 and as a consequence of the way the information
 has gone from their email client to their ISP.
 So it's not something that it's really possible
 to keep super secret,
 but changing it from time to time really doesn't make sense.
 - Let me just raise this, and it may be a dead end,
 but I use a service, it's essentially a proxy service,
 a security service called IFANIM,
 and it anonymizes my IP address to their IP address.
 Any attacks, anytime I'm online, if I'm on BitTorrent,
 or whatever, I appear to be coming from that IP address.
 Would that be an effective solution?
 - That would be an effective solution.
 Basically, you're using them as what's called a proxy
 in order to route all of your traffic through them.
 Then their IP is the only one that's gonna be visible.
 If you disconnect from them, then later reconnect,
 chances are you'll be coming out of a different pool
 of their IP, and I would imagine that someone like that
 has all kinds of defenses that they've already got
 in place upstream.
 They're much more than your provider provides to you.
 - Right, I mean, that's their business.
 That's one of the things they really ought to do.
 Well, it sounds like the other message
 that probably consumers should get is if you see on the box,
 protects against ping attacks, protects against DOS attacks,
 that's not true.
 - No, that's exactly right.
 I'm glad that we've made this very clear,
 'cause it's an annoyance that these vendors are claiming.
 They know that people are concerned
 about being attacked on the internet,
 about these denial of service attacks,
 so they're putting it on the box.
 But if traffic is flooding your connection,
 there's nothing the box at the receiving end of the flood
 can do to get out of the way.
 The only thing you as an end user can do
 is dodge that bullet by one way or another,
 arranging to change your IP address,
 and you may wanna change your online gaming name
 or whatever it was that caused you to draw this fire,
 because of course, if you just reappear
 in the same environment with the same name,
 even if your IP has changed and this has happened a lot,
 people will attack you at your new IP.
 - And in addition, if you're being attacked
 over instant messenger, for instance, being flooded
 with IM requests, nothing you can do about that either,
 really, because you have to let those in, right?
 - Well, exactly, and the IM system
 will automatically pick up on your new IP
 if you maintain the same username in the IM system,
 if you change your IP and then reconnect
 into the IM system, your new IP automatically gets passed in
 so that you're able to receive that information.
 - So you can run, but you can't hide.
 - That's exactly right.
 - Steve, it's fascinating.
 The ins and outs of denial of service attacks,
 both the original DOS attacks and the newer scarier DDoS attacks,
 and it's one more reason why people should also update
 their operating systems, run antiviruses,
 and try to keep their system from being one of the zombies.
 It's being used to attack others.
 - Oh, absolutely.
 - Yeah, I mean, that's another way we can practice
 some hygiene on the internet.
 - Being good citizens on the internet.
 Steve Gibson is at GRC.com,
 information about all of our security now shows,
 including small 16-bit downloads for those of you
 on the dial-up or with smaller storage devices,
 and transcripts for those of you who like to read
 while you listen are available at grc.com/securitynow.html,
 or thanks to AOL Radio at AOLMusic.com
 for providing the bandwidth for security now
 so that we can offer this absolutely free,
 and every Thursday we'll be back with yet another
 security now.
 Steve Gibson, thanks for joining me.
 - Always a pleasure, Leo, thanks.
 - Because the web is so huge, it's got 10 billion pages.
 You just can't go out there looking at every single page.
 You know, what kind of junk is out there?
 Zombie machines, hackers, new worlds, malicious websites.
 Unknown, zero-day exploits,
 affecting people's machines with spyware
 is becoming a business model.
 ♪ You care now ♪
 (upbeat music)
