 (upbeat music)
 - Netcasts you love.
 - From people you trust.
 - This is Twit.
 - Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by AOL Radio
 at AOL.com/podcasting.
 (upbeat music)
 - This is Security Now with Steve Gibson.
 Episode 86 for April 5th, 2007.
 Cross-site scripting, part two.
 Security Now is brought to you by
 a Staro, makers of the Staro Security Gateway
 on the web at www.astRO.com.
 And by Nerds on Site, looking to grow your IT service business,
 find out how Nerds on Site can help
 visit IWANNABEANnerd.com.
 It's time for Security Now, our second episode of the week
 because we had a special on the problem
 with the animated cursor vulnerability.
 That was on Monday.
 Trust you've solved your problems with that.
 Steve Gibson's back now to resume our conversation
 about cross-site scripting.
 Hey Steve.
 - Hey Leo, great to be back with you.
 - What's the update on the animated cursor by the way?
 - Exactly, I was just gonna say it's worth making sure
 that everyone has run Windows Update.
 They, Microsoft did, as we expected,
 and as they had stated, push out an out-of-cycle,
 single vulnerability fix just for this problem on Tuesday,
 which would have been the third.
 And so that's a week earlier than their normal
 second Tuesday of the month patch cycle,
 which apparently they're still gonna have a bunch
 of other stuff that they're gonna be doing next Tuesday
 on April 10th, but I wanna make sure
 that everyone's got that.
 So it turns out that it's being widely exploited.
 There's now a lot of use of it on the net,
 hoping to find users who are not updating,
 who don't have Windows Update turned on,
 who haven't visited Windows Update,
 and one way or another gotten themselves patched.
 So I imagine there's gonna be, for a month or so,
 a strong effort to continue to install malware
 into unsuspecting users' machines through this vector,
 and it may never go away completely,
 as these things tend not to.
 >> You have to think that there was this window
 of vulnerability, the vulnerability's been out there
 for three months, Microsoft patched it to April 3rd,
 and there were exploits happening as early as March 30th,
 or even earlier, I mean, that's the first we heard of it.
 >> Well, that must mean that some many, many,
 maybe millions of computers were bit.
 >> And actually, I got email specifically from people
 after our special podcast saying they knew of,
 I mean, personal knowledge of specific instances
 where people got malware through this vector.
 So we called it a zero-day exploit as we do
 when the first discovery of it publicly is its exploitation.
 What's annoying, as I mentioned a couple days ago,
 is that Microsoft was sitting on this thing,
 now they say they were planning to patch it on the 10th,
 which I assume they were,
 'cause they knew it was a bad problem,
 but they were not in any real big hurry
 for the last three months or four months.
 So it's like, okay, you know, this is the frustration
 that I hear from many security researchers,
 you know, like the guys at EI,
 they, at one point, they were like showing a calendar
 of how long things they had informed Microsoft of,
 had just been ignored by Microsoft.
 And, you know, known vulnerabilities
 are remaining unpatched for like six, nine months, even.
 >> Well, and I've heard, I've been hearing this
 from security experts for a long time.
 I mean, this is a very common complaint about Microsoft,
 and I understand that Microsoft doesn't want to push patches,
 it hasn't tested because,
 especially now that people have automatic patching turned on,
 there's a risk in that.
 >> Well, and in fact, I got a Wacky error message
 about a conflict of address space on a DLL.
 I think it was, I think it was the HTML help DLL,
 but I'm not sure, but it was after the system rebooted
 on an XP machine where I had applied the patch.
 And I know I'm not alone 'cause I saw some other reports.
 Actually, I had, I received some other reports
 of the same thing.
 So there was some sort of a little oopsie, you know,
 interaction that got away from them.
 And you can see Microsoft really pushing
 for what they call responsible disclosure.
 They're like, they're big into responsible disclosure now
 to remind everyone that they don't want
 irresponsible disclosure, which is to say,
 you know, they don't want to be pushed or hurried.
 Yeah, and that might, some might characterize
 as irresponsible to be honest with you.
 >> Yeah.
 >> EIs, I was mentioning them, and I'd love to get
 your opinion at some point down the road.
 It does offer a free, I guess it's a firewall,
 it's called Blink.
 >> Yes, Blink is a, yes, Blink is a very well known
 and reputable tool, which is sort of their,
 their prophylactic around windows,
 which they maintain, and it's like their main deal
 is this really nice, well, they also have something
 called Retina, which, you know, everything, of course,
 is in the I-E-Y-E theme, so you've got Blink
 and Retina and so forth, and I guess it deals
 with Windows cataracts, I'm not sure, but security blindness
 on the part of Microsoft.
 So this is, it's hard to just exactly figure out
 what it is, it sounds like it's an antivirus,
 it sounds like it's an anti-spyware,
 it also sounds like it does some internet security.
 It sounds like it would be a very good choice
 for a lot of people.
 >> Consider this, it has the same sort
 of auto-updating features, and they inform Blink,
 that is EI informs Blink of the stuff they find
 when they find it.
 So during this somewhat frightening,
 I can't think of the word I'm looking for,
 this sort of refractory period, during which
 Microsoft knows about a problem, but it hasn't yet fixed it,
 well, the EI guys that know about the problem,
 they have fixed it in Blink, so Blink users
 were protected from the, during this whole period
 of time from December 20th of '06,
 when they inform Microsoft all the way through now.
 So that's a very cool thing, I mean, you'd like to have
 that kind of preemptive protection,
 and then of course, once Microsoft fixes it,
 I'm not sure whether the EI guys remove that rule
 from Blink or leave it around, I would imagine
 they leave it around, because it's a good thing
 to protect yourself from.
 So it's like, whereas the AV people are often
 always playing catch-up, you could argue
 that EI with their Blink tool is really leading the pack.
 Of course, there are other vulnerabilities
 that they don't know about, that other security researchers
 are reporting to Microsoft, and it's not clear to me
 how active they are in trying to reverse engineer
 those things and put that protection into Blink as well.
 One would certainly think that it makes sense
 for them to do so.
 - So you wouldn't, you would recommend Blink.
 Of course, if you're running another antivirus
 or an security software, you probably shouldn't mix.
 And so that's the question, is Blink a full service
 antivirus or just a purpose-built antivirus too?
 - And I haven't looked at it that closely,
 but these guys are down in Southern California,
 not far from me, when we might consider
 getting them on the show, talking about their stuff.
 I mean, they're good, I trust them.
 - Oh, they are, and I've also met them
 at a couple of user group meetings,
 and they've really got the technology.
 - So the gut's the good news, it's free
 Windows 2000 tablet PC, immediate set of the bad news,
 it doesn't come on Vista, and the really badening
 is it's the first serious Vista vulnerability.
 Here we are, not two months into the Vista era,
 and already a serious, unpached exploit
 that's been there since beginning, since Vista shipped.
 That doesn't bode well, frankly.
 I mean, to me, the sole recommendation for Vista
 is improved security, and if it can't do that, well,
 I don't know.
 - Well, it's certainly the case that this is old code.
 This has been around for a long time
 in, you know, for it to affect all versions of Windows,
 including Windows 2000.
 I did note something interesting,
 and that is that apparently it's XP service pack two
 that is affected, but not presumably original XP
 and service pack one.
 So it sounds like something that got introduced
 at somewhere along the way, and it's worth mentioning also
 that this ANI, I mean, if this animate a cursor issue,
 if that sounds familiar to people,
 it's because there have been security problems there
 in the past that Microsoft,
 so Microsoft in fixing those may have created this,
 or didn't find this one when they were
 in the code fixing other ones,
 but this has been a vector for trouble
 that we've seen before.
 - Good to know, and we'll keep an eye on it, of course.
 That's one of the reasons we do these special updates,
 and it's kind of our commitment to you.
 When we see an issue like this,
 we will push out a special edition of security now.
 That's a good reason to subscribe to the podcast,
 not rely on manual downloads or listening on the website.
 - It is, yeah, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to interrupt.
 - Well, you can do that through iTunes, of course,
 and we have a podcast feed of this as I guess what I'm saying,
 subscribe to it.
 - Right, right, I did want to remind people though,
 that IE7, with its enhanced protection turned on,
 was not vulnerable to this.
 So that is an aspect of VISTA's enhanced security,
 which does bear against this kind of problem.
 Whatever it was in detail, it was causing the trouble,
 turning on the IE7 extra protection
 that is available in VISTA did prevent this.
 - Is that on my default?
 - I don't remember whether it's on it.
 - It's in the standard security settings
 and sort of innocuous looking.
 I sort of think it's not on by default, actually,
 it's my case of it, it breaks a lot of sides.
 - That's the problem, is that you start getting,
 in fact, someone sent me just recently a depth error
 that IE was kicking up, and I think it was under XP,
 but I'm sure it was under XP
 'cause he sent me a screenshot of the dialogue box,
 and so, but that was IE causing some sort of trouble,
 which is again, it's why we're moving very slowly
 towards tightening things up, but I'm glad to see
 Microsoft really is putting pressure on the world
 to make this stuff more secure.
 - Let's see, we want to, any other addenda or additions
 before we address cross-site scripting?
 - Well, yeah, I did want to talk about,
 follow up a little bit on last week's discussion
 of e-book stuff.
 I know that there's a strong interest in it.
 The thing that brought me into the topic,
 as you'll remember, last week,
 was that I've had a lot of feedback from people saying,
 "Hey, what other authors do you like?"
 I loved your last recommendation of Peter Hamilton.
 Who else?
 And so, of course, I talked about Michael McCollum
 at sci-fi-az.com, sci-fi Arizona,
 as another one of my favorite authors.
 He and I have had some email back and forth
 because I've been interested in figuring out, basically,
 what it would take to move his electronically downloadable
 books over to the Sony.
 And in fact, you'll remember, Leo, that when we talked,
 you had had the Sony for a while,
 that that is the new Sony e-book reader,
 they call the Sony reader, it's the PRS-500.
 And I was expecting mine to arrive the following day.
 It did, and I'm now converted.
 I mean, I like this experience.
 I've picked up my palm that I was using for years,
 various palms, but the one I was most recently using,
 and just sort of looked at the screen again,
 and then looked back at the Sony.
 And I gotta say, I mean, it would be nice
 if the Sony had an optionally turn-on-able backlight
 of some sort that was available,
 or maybe like edge lighting or something,
 so you didn't have to bring your own lighting.
 I know that you bought the book light.
 I also did from Sony's side.
 It's the thing that clips on the top
 and sort of reaches around.
 And it's got just two very bright white LEDs
 that do a great job of illuminating this thing.
 But overall, I really like this.
 Now, I mean, I've got a bunch of complaints with it,
 but I'm also an early adopter, as I know you are.
 And I remember Sony's journey through the mini-disc.
 Their very first mini-disc recorder that I owned
 was sort of a big black portable blob
 with a big battery pack that connected to the outside.
 And I mean, it worked, but it was first generation.
 It had that feeling.
 And then a year later, they had one
 that with like three times a battery life
 and smaller batteries and more features
 and it was smaller.
 And then another year later, even better,
 and another year later, even better.
 And I mean, to the point now,
 where their current mini-disc recorders
 are just these gorgeous little things.
 I mean, really refined.
 And so I think that this first reader
 has the same sort of feeling.
 I mean, it is new technology.
 It's using this E-ink technology,
 the so-called electrophoretic display.
 And the way it works, I've learned a lot about it since
 'cause I've been curious, is I described it incorrectly
 last week as spheres that rotated
 either their white hemisphere or their black hemisphere
 forward, which is actually one of the E-ink technologies.
 But it's not the one this one uses.
 And have you noticed ghosting from like the prior page?
 - Yeah, there are a couple of complaints that we all have.
 I talked to Patrick Norton about this
 'cause he was really high on this as well.
 And we all agree the controls aren't great.
 And this little flicker you get when you turn a page
 is slightly annoying.
 - Yes, it turns out that Sony,
 there are different ways to refresh this technology.
 What's actually happening is that the pixel resolution,
 that is the pixels we're used to thinking of
 in terms of what's on screen is 800 by 600.
 So it's the original, what, SVGA resolution.
 Although of course it's in portrait orientation
 as opposed to the four by three original VGA landscape
 orientation. - And for the size
 of that screen, that's a pretty high resolution.
 That's a decent. - Oh, and Leo,
 I mean, I've been very critical of the,
 I mean, I've stared at the screen
 with a very critical eye looking closely,
 as closely as my eyes will focus on the characters.
 I mean, they're beautiful because they are,
 they are anti-aliased characters.
 So what's actually happening here is that this screen
 has an ultra high particulate resolution.
 I mean, down in the something or other microns.
 And there are tiny, tiny little particles of titanium,
 I think it's titanium dioxide,
 which is a white particle.
 And it's embedded in a dark hydrocarbon,
 like oil, essentially, emulsion.
 And so what happens is when these particles
 are pushed to the back, you see darkness there.
 And when they're pulled to the front,
 you see their whiteness there.
 And so, but the idea is,
 so there's this super high resolution surface.
 I mean, really high resolution.
 And then there are charging pads on the front and back,
 transparent, of course, on the front
 and not necessarily so on the back,
 which put an electrostatic field across a square region
 of all of these particles.
 So the point is that the ghosting is when not all of them
 move all the way back or all the way front,
 when you've gone, when you've switched one of these
 pixels rectangular regions from black to white or black,
 or white to black.
 So it turns out that there's like a quick change
 that Sony can do or a more extensive change
 where it's sort of like,
 how hard do you shake the etch a sketch?
 It's sort of, that's sort of an analogy for it.
 Do you wanna really shake it hard
 and like get it all away erased?
 Or are you kind of, for reasons of UI,
 would you rather just do it more quickly?
 Because a little bit of the past won't really annoy you.
 And so Sony has different strategies for this
 that they've been evolving.
 I'm not minding that screen change.
 It does take a little, yes, it takes a little getting used to.
 And in fact, because there's a little bit of delay,
 I'll now hit the next page button
 while I'm reading the last line of the screen,
 knowing that it's gonna take a while
 for it to catch up with me.
 - You're a smart monkey.
 You've learned, you've adapted.
 - So there are not-- - Why isn't it not
 a paper white?
 That's my biggest complaint,
 is that it's not as high contrast as it could be.
 - I completely agree.
 And I think it's just that the nature of the particles,
 the particle density, the particle color,
 and probably the fact that it's basically very white thing
 suspended in a dark medium.
 Even when you pull them all to the front,
 you're still gonna have some of the dark goo
 that's around them.
 It's gonna be lowering their overall reflectivity.
 One of the things that I have noticed is that,
 unlike a book which, like regular book paper,
 like especially paperback paper
 that sort of tends toward to be a little bit yellow,
 this is almost metallically reflective.
 In other words, it tends to reflect
 the color of the light on it.
 So for example, when I'm under incandescent light,
 it has sort of a, you know, a yellow-er feel.
 And when I'm outside, it has a much bluer sort of look.
 And when I'm under white LEDs,
 it sort of have that real sort of blue crispness.
 I mean, it looks just fantastic.
 So I'm pleased with it.
 There are a whole bunch of UI things.
 You know, you talked about last week
 about not being really happy about the page turning.
 I completely agree with you.
 I'm still having to kind of figure out how to hold it
 so that my thumb or a finger can rest on the buttons.
 Also, it's wrong that paging forward
 is given no more preference over paging backward.
 - Right.
 - When you think about- - 'Cause that's what
 you do mostly.
 - Exactly.
 - How often do you turn a page back?
 - Exactly.
 I mean, sometimes if the paragraph on the page,
 you're reading, wait a minute, does it make sense?
 Or you got interrupted while you were reading,
 you'll have to go back to it like-
 - That's only one time in 10.
 - Oh, if that, I would say more like one in a hundred.
 - Right.
 - Or maybe a big button that says next page.
 - Yes.
 - Yeah.
 - And sure, you definitely want to be able to go back,
 but you don't have to go back equally to going forward,
 which is what they offer you right now.
 So again, and I want to remind people.
 I mean, this thing is, what is it, $349?
 - Right, it's cheap.
 - So, well, okay, except I've, you and I each have one.
 There are people who have said, and I completely understand.
 - That's 10 hardcover books,
 and you could put a hundred on there.
 - Okay, from that standpoint, yes, it is cheap.
 - The books aren't cheap.
 The books are only slightly cheaper than the hardcover.
 - What I am absolutely sure will happen,
 and then this is always what Sony does.
 I mean, the first Walkman to the Walkman now,
 the first mini-disc player to the mini-disc player now.
 I mean, anything they do, it starts out big and bulky,
 sort of almost proof of concept, you know?
 It's like the engineers say, we can do this.
 Let us try, let us try.
 And, you know, and so, and so, they're gonna prove themselves.
 And so, I would say to anybody who will be,
 who's like annoyed by Apple with the iPod phenomenon,
 where you buy one, and then next week,
 they come out with the one you wish you'd waited for.
 - Right.
 - But, you know, you are, you didn't know,
 they were gonna come out with one next, you know,
 a week later.
 - Right.
 - Certainly, we're gonna see the price of this thing fall.
 It is Linux-based, there's a bunch of stuff
 that they've left in there that they didn't need
 to leave in there.
 It's running Montevista, I think it is,
 Montevista Linux and--
 - Must be a good Linux.
 My only question would be if it's selling well enough
 for Sony to pursue it.
 It may be, I mean, I don't, do you get the sense
 that it's taking the world by storm, I don't?
 - I have no sense for that yet, either way.
 - And so, that could be a bad sign.
 I mean, we know Sony is unusually defensive
 of their products, look how long they've kept
 many disks alive, but at the same time,
 if it's not doing well, I don't know if they would--
 - Well, and it is DRMed again.
 I mean, that's the other real annoyance,
 although I have to say that I think,
 and you would know this better than I,
 'cause I just read this once, that when you purchase
 a book from the Sony Connect Store,
 you have like five or six devices
 that you're able to install it on.
 - Now, remember, the computer is one.
 - Yes, the computer counts as one,
 but still, that seems very liberal to me.
 I mean, it's like-- - It's much like
 the iTunes story, I wouldn't say,
 I mean, how many devices are you gonna put that thing on?
 - Right, right, I like the Palm model,
 actually the Palm reader, when you download from them,
 you need to unlock it using the credit card number
 you use to purchase. - Right.
 - And their theory, of course, is you're gonna be reluctant
 to give your credit card number to anybody else
 in order to unlock the book you bought
 on their reader.
 So I think that's sort of a nice clever inhibition
 for piracy, and I will say that Leo,
 I have never, ever seen the battery charge indicator
 come off of full.
 - I know, I neither have I, it goes a long time.
 - And also, books tend to be about 350, 360K,
 you know, like an average size book,
 which means that the hundred megs,
 which is free in this thing,
 will, I mean, it's all the books you will ever need
 to carry at one time, so the only reason I can see
 for using the SD card and the memory stick,
 again, another Sony proprietary technology,
 would be for music.
 And as an experiment a couple mornings ago,
 I did put a bunch of music on it,
 and it's the only thing, it was playing music,
 it was the only way I was ever able to get
 the battery full meter off of high.
 - How does the music sound?
 'Cause I haven't listened to music on it.
 - It sounded absolutely fine.
 - All right.
 - And in fact, if I didn't already own, you know,
 every iPod and a shuffle and all these things.
 - Can you read a book and listen to music at the same time?
 - Well, my music, I've got this weird sort of space.
 - But I mean, will that, will that the technology
 allow you to play a song while you're reading?
 - Oh, it's designed for that.
 - Oh, see, that's not so bad.
 - Absolutely, it would be nice.
 - I could put some classical music on there and read.
 - That's exactly right.
 There's an artist called Liquid Mind that I really like.
 And it's just, it's very, you know,
 ethereal, interesting, sort of ambient in the background.
 - Perfect for a plane, perfect for a plane.
 - Yes, yes, and so I mean, so this works perfectly.
 You stick your headphones in, you go and choose
 what music you want now.
 They don't currently, at least I don't think
 they currently have any sort of like playlist facility,
 and they sort the music based on the name in the ID3 tag.
 - It's kind of an afterthought, in other words.
 - Yeah, exactly.
 Well, no, again, everything about this is first generation.
 You know, you are able to create book collections
 as they call them in order to create,
 in order to provide some organization of authors
 and books by collection.
 There's no facility for that over on the audio side.
 So what I did is because they don't even sort
 based on file name, they sort based on ID3 tagging,
 I went in and edited my tags in order to force
 the sort order that I wanted because it always plays
 in the order, yeah, exactly, in the same order.
 But I mean, it really works.
 You pull your headphones into the bottom,
 you turn on, you know, music, and then you go right back
 to reading and everything works great.
 - What kind of life do you get with the music?
 - I don't have any sense for it because I had never charged
 it and I've been using it extensively now for nearly a week.
 And when I plugged the headphones in and started playing
 music, not long after I first saw the highest charge bar
 disappear, but I'd already been using it for days
 without even a thought for charging.
 I mean, that I really like, and I have to say,
 I mean, the text is so large, it's very readable.
 I mean, I'm not trying to promote our listeners
 to go purchase this the way I really wanted
 to recommend Michael's books.
 And by the way, he will before long have his books
 also offered in Sony reader format.
 - Thanks to you, you've figured out the way to do it.
 - Yes, the industry is a mess at the moment.
 And I could do it now with a lot of jockeying around,
 but I'd rather work out the way for him to be able
 to convert his books over.
 So, and he's absolutely demonstrated
 and interested in doing so.
 For example, he made Gibraltar Earth available to me
 in a format, basically he exported what he had in HTML.
 And I found some really wacky tools.
 I mean, Python and Java and all this junk mixed together,
 but I'm reading Gibraltar Earth now on the Sony reader.
 And so, I mean, it's completely workable
 and I'm really pleased.
 And of course, I'm rereading it because I'm excited
 to go to the sequel, which is Gibraltar Sun.
 But there was some confusion.
 I wanted to make sure people knew that if I were
 to recommend a first series to read of his,
 I think the Antares Trilogy,
 which I first recommended to you Leo,
 it's just fantastic.
 - Well, I have both and I was a little disappointed
 because there are unprotected PDFs,
 which in theory you can play on the Sony reader,
 but it turns out you can't just put any old PDF on there.
 And so with your help, I hope you'll re-encoder them
 so I can read them.
 I'm looking forward to bringing it to Vancouver with me.
 That's the main reason I bought this.
 I found myself carrying a giant Judas Unchained,
 a giant Peter Hamilton book on the plane
 weighs about eight pounds.
 And I thought, you know, I need something lighter
 for this stuff.
 - Yep.
 Let's say before we get to cross-site scripting,
 I just want to mention, once again,
 our great friends at nerds on-site.
 And I want to be a nerd.com.
 They are sponsors of this podcast
 and they are looking for more nerds.
 It's kind of a neat idea.
 These guys aren't, you know, they're not the company.
 They're a guild, really, of independent contractors.
 So you're still in business for yourself,
 but not by yourself.
 So you focus on your passion
 and not the burdens of running a business.
 It sounds like a great idea.
 I wish there was something like this for podcasting.
 There are nerds on-site in seven, I think eight countries.
 Now, Canada, USA, Mexico, England, Australia,
 South Africa and Bolivia, all over the world.
 If you are an expert,
 PC to Mac, Cisco to Oracle, fix it technicians,
 website designers, programmers, project managers,
 even sales trainees, trainers, security experts,
 antivirus gurus.
 They particularly like those folks
 who like to tear apart, build,
 and troubleshoot their own systems.
 Visit iwannabeanerd.com
 and register for a nerds-only meeting in your area today.
 Nerds on-site, I want to be a nerd.com.
 - Well, on Leo, that's sort of a perfect segue
 for a fun mention of Spinrite, too.
 I didn't understand until I read this
 that this was one of the nerds who had sent me a note.
 - Oh, really?
 - Yeah, but, and so you'll see as I read this
 from the context that that must be who he is.
 He says, "I would just like to share an experience
 "I had using Spinrite last week.
 "I had a PC in my office."
 And this is a different sort of Spinrite testimonial, too.
 So as you'll see, it's a different aspect of Spinrite.
 "I had a PC in my office that I suspected
 "had a hard drive going bad.
 "I ran check disc on it several times and it found nothing.
 "The PC kept blue-screening and freezing up
 "at the worst possible times."
 Well, you know, like there's a good time
 to get a blue screen.
 So I decided it was a good time to try out Spinrite.
 I started to do a scan and was ready to let it run
 as I have heard other nerds say
 it takes a while to do its thing.
 Within a minute or two, a screen popped up from Spinrite
 saying that this drive was in danger of complete failure.
 Cancel the tests and back up any data
 as the drive may not survive the testing process.
 And that's something that's cool,
 that's something cool that I built into Spinrite 6,
 is it's while it's doing its stuff,
 it's constantly polling the drive's smart subsystem.
 And as we know, from a podcast we did on this,
 you know, smart is not as smart as we would like it to be,
 but it has the ability of really raising a red flag
 and saying, okay, we are in serious trouble here.
 So that will never false positive.
 It generally doesn't save you the way it'd be nice if it did.
 But since Spinrite is monitoring it all the time,
 if Spinrite sees that its own use of the drive
 is causing the drive to panic,
 it'll stop and say to the user,
 look, there may not be enough of your drive left here to save.
 So, and so continuing with his note,
 it says, I was a little skeptical to say the least,
 but to save time, I put in a new drive
 and started reloading windows.
 Just for kicks, I put the quote, bad unquote drive,
 he has in quotes, in another PC
 and started Spinrite again to see what it would do.
 About five minutes into the test,
 I heard a very familiar clunking sound.
 Oh boy.
 Coming from the definitely bad hard drive.
 And he says, you don't need to be a nerd to know
 that's not good.
 Now he says that.
 Now we know, he's come out of the closet.
 All right.
 He said, the drive crashed hard.
 And then he says, it's great to know
 we have access to a product,
 meaning he the nerds,
 'cause I've done a deal with the nerds guys
 to make, you know, Spinrite available to them,
 a site license essentially,
 which is one of the things we offer,
 that we can rely on to give us accurate results
 and thus make us better techs.
 My thanks to Steve Gibson and the folks at Spinrite
 for saving me a bunch of time.
 That's great.
 Dave Everett in Michigan.
 That's great.
 You should add that, you know, nerd certified
 or tested by nerds.
 It's all over the country.
 Inspected by nerd number five.
 All right, let's get to cross-site scripting, shall we?
 This is something we talked a little bit about last week.
 We kind of got our start,
 but now we're going to go into some greater detail
 as you are wants to do.
 You like to set us up, then knock it down.
 Well, and so last week,
 we sort of talked about the generic problem
 of what I would call stepping back a little bit,
 sort of overall web website or web code injection,
 where through various mistakes made in servers
 and in the sort of like the next generation web code
 that is now becoming so popular,
 in other words, to say scripting.
 All kinds of, Steve, folks, just in case you didn't know,
 Steve doesn't like scripting.
 Well, all kinds of problems are being created.
 Now, rather than just saying that
 and making a blanket statement,
 I thought I would start out
 by giving people a sense for recently discovered problems
 with prominent and less prominent web-based software.
 So I started enumerating them.
 I thought, okay, I will just go for 2007.
 You know, what's been found in 2007?
 Well, there was so much trouble that I said,
 okay, forget this, let's just do March.
 Let's just do March
 because March had 28 problems
 that were identified.
 Where'd you go to find this stuff?
 Well, the really terrific resource I continually use
 is the SANS Institute.
 You know, the SANS securities guys.
 I'm on their mailing list.
 I get notices of this
 and it's one of the things that has always had
 the issue of cross-site scripting on my mind
 is something I wanted to talk about in this podcast.
 It's because I scan it every week
 and I see what's going on.
 And you know, sure enough, every single week,
 there's six or seven or eight or nine,
 you know, new cross-site scripting vulnerabilities
 that they're reporting.
 And so it's like a constant annoyance
 that I'm seeing this going on.
 And I wanted to, you know, again,
 we've never talked about this before.
 So I thought it was a topic really worth mentioning.
 So I'm gonna very quickly, as quickly as I can,
 zipped through just in March, what was found.
 And to give people, it'll give you a sense for, you know,
 obscure companies and some well-known companies
 like IBM and Oracle are mentioned in here
 as having vulnerabilities and also sort of a sense
 for the nature of the problem.
 So the first one here is,
 is build to go news manager blog is a blog application.
 The application is exposed to multiple cross-site scripting
 issues because it fails to sanitize user-supplied input.
 We'll be hearing that phrase a lot.
 Build to go news manager version 1.0 is affected.
 And we have open HRM is a human resource management application.
 The application is prone to multiple unspecified vulnerabilities
 on the login page of the application.
 Open HRM versions prior to 2.1 alpha-5 are affected.
 So it sounds like they found out about that and they fixed it.
 Webmen is a web-based Unix system administration interface.
 - Everybody uses this, I use this.
 - Uh-huh, implemented in Perl.
 The application is exposed to multiple
 saw cross-site scripting issues
 because it fails to sanitize user-supplied input
 to multiple unspecified parameters
 of the chooser.cgi script.
 Webmen versions prior to 1.330 are affected.
 Wordpress, have you ever heard of that?
 - Yeah.
 - Uh-huh.
 Wordpress allows users to generate news pages
 and web logs dynamically.
 It is exposed to a cross-site scripting issue
 because it fails to properly sanitize user-supplied input
 to the post-parameter of the WPA,
 or sorry, WPA admin/post.php script.
 Wordpress version 2.1.1 is affected.
 Webpress is a web-based publishing application.
 The application is exposed to multiple
 cross-site scripting issues
 because it fails to sanitize user-supplied input.
 Version 2.1.1 is affected.
 This looks like Duckybo, DOCEBO,
 is a content management system, a CMS application.
 The application is exposed to multiple
 cross-site scripting issues
 because it fails to sanitize user-supplied input
 of index.php and modules/html frame chat/index.php parameters.
 Versions 3.05 and earlier are affected.
 Photostand is a photo-blogging application.
 The application is exposed to cross-site scripting issue
 because it fails to properly sanitize user-supplied input
 to the A-parameter of the index.php script.
 Photostand version 1.2 is affected.
 PHP Web Gallery is an image gallery application.
 The application is exposed to multiple
 cross-site scripting issues
 because it fails to sanitize user input.
 Version 1.4.1 is affected.
 Active Calendar, now I'm gonna stop going through this
 but I'm gonna say Active Calendar,
 web-based calendar creation.
 Track is a wiki and issue tracking system.
 The Dynalians program is a guest book application.
 That's got problems.
 Lazarus Guest Book is a web-based guest book application.
 It's got problems.
 VCard Pro is a virtual greeting card application.
 Oh goodness, that's got problems.
 Virtual Mart is an e-commerce application.
 The application is prone to multiple cross-site scripting
 issues because it fails to sanitize user-supplied input,
 unspecified parameters to the PS underscore part,
 I'm sorry, cart.php and Virtual Mart underscore parser
 PHP scripts are vulnerable.
 Direct Admin is a web administration panel.
 Oracle Portal is a portal application integrated
 into Oracle's application server software.
 The application is exposed to blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
 IBM Rational ClearQuest is a software development
 management application is exposed
 to cross-site scripting, blah, blah, blah.
 Multiple Cisco products are exposed to cross-site scripting
 issues because they failed to properly sanitize users
 by an import input.
 Hoard, H-O-R-D-E framework is a web-logging application.
 The application is exposed to multiple HTTP cross-site
 scripting, blah, blah, blah.
 A PHP-P-H project K spelled J-E-C-T
 is a modular web-based application
 to share information and documents.
 I think it probably shares a little more information
 and a little more documents than it was intended to.
 Mind-touch decky wiki is a file server and internet tool.
 Oracle, oh again, Oracle application server has a problem.
 Here's another word press PHP undersource self problem.
 Inter-stage application server has a problem.
 Overlay weaver is a web-based search engine
 that's not happy.
 E-BitWizzy.
 I'm not kidding.
 - Oh, sorry, month of March, by the way.
 - This is just March.
 I was gonna do the O7.
 - Oh, well, I didn't.
 I don't think I'm long enough podcast.
 - Everybody's glad.
 They don't have enough time to download this.
 A BitWizzy, I got three left,
 is a BitWizzy is a PHP script that uses WYSIWYG.js
 to create and edit web pages through a WYSIWYG interface.
 The application is exposed to multiple cross-site scripting
 and directory's traversal issues
 because it fails to sufficiently sanitize users
 by input to the B parameter.
 Mephisto blog is a web log application implemented in Ruby.
 The application is exposed to blah, blah, blah,
 multiple cross-site scripting, blah, blah.
 Co-counter, I'm sorry, CC counter,
 is a website hit counter application
 and it is exposed to cross-site scripting issues.
 Oh.
 - Well, one thing that becomes obvious
 is that most of these are web-based tools.
 That's, of course, why they're at risk
 because anybody can use these tools and enter in data
 and then the data can be overflow.
 - Well, that's exactly right.
 So there's a couple of things this means.
 Essentially, look how long it took us
 to get Microsoft up to speed on security.
 Now what's happened is, essentially,
 because of Web 2.0 and PHP and Ruby and JavaScript
 and all these other tools
 that are allowing and empowering in all fairness,
 empowering web guys, web masters and administrators
 to create really amazing active websites.
 Suddenly now, they're all having to be security experts
 and they're not.
 - Right.
 So the problem is that any situation
 where it's possible for user-supplied input
 to contain scripting itself, that is,
 that's the whole injection deal,
 the whole cross-side scripting problem
 is that users are able to provide stuff
 which the application will then digest
 and perhaps show to them or to other users.
 And in the process, they're browsers
 which are running scripting as part of what they do
 to offer these features.
 Their browsers will run the code
 that malicious creators have written
 and bang, you're in trouble.
 You don't need buffer overflows.
 This depth won't protect you, SSL won't protect you.
 Basically, the fundamental problem is
 that the way webpage scripting has been designed
 from the start is you could argue it's too powerful
 because there's a free mixture of web visual content
 and interpreted content mixed right in.
 That is, right in the middle, for example, of a webpage,
 you could say open bracket script, close bracket
 and then you could say document.cookie
 and then open bracket backslash script, close bracket
 in order to close the script.
 What would happen is when your browser
 is showing you this page,
 it encounters that script tag
 and immediately without any requirement,
 switches on the script interpreter
 which reads document.cookie.
 Well, that's a variable which the interpreter replaces
 with your cookie for that site and then it continues.
 So what the user will see is blah, blah, blah,
 they're reading along and then they will see the cookie
 which is supposed to be and up to now
 has been secret between them and the remote server.
 Their browser understands that it's okay to show this cookie
 because after all, it's a page coming from this remote server.
 Well, that power, the power of being able
 to embed script anywhere and you can even embed it
 in the arguments of queries, you know,
 the famous get query where which search engines use,
 for example, in order to send information back,
 you're able to put script tags even there
 and the browser will dutifully interpret
 whatever the script is and run it on the spot
 replacing whatever you've got with current variables.
 So it turns out that there's a way
 and it's well documented.
 All the hackers know about how to do this
 where if you provide the URL for a malicious server
 as part of that little script,
 you can have the malicious server receive the cookie
 for a server, for whatever server has served the page
 which means it completely breaks this notion
 of cookies being safe for authentication
 and for session tracking.
 I mean, for example, you know, when I'm using eBay,
 I choose to be the little check mark of leave, you know,
 leave me logged in for some length of time
 until I explicitly log out.
 The same thing with Amazon.
 I mean, Amazon is smart in, for example,
 if I try to add a new mailing address for books,
 it makes me type my password in again,
 which is a good thing because what cross-site scripting does
 is it absolutely allows session hijacking
 where because of the fact that cookies are what's used
 to maintain state as we move from page to page on a site,
 anybody else returning my cookie will be believed to be me.
 So you can easily see a scenario where, for example,
 if Amazon were to have a cross-site scripting flaw,
 it would be possible for third parties to capture Amazon
 user cookies on the fly while they were logged in,
 immediately open a session using their cookie,
 thus completely impersonating them to Amazon
 and then buy a whole bunch of stuff using their credit card
 because that's all stored by Amazon
 and you're never required to enter that again
 and then add a mailing address other than where you want,
 other than your default or any that you've used in the past
 and basically buy anything they want and have it sent to them
 and the user would know nothing about it
 until their credit card bill comes at the end of the month
 and they go, "Wait a minute.
 "I didn't spend $5,000 on Amazon.com,
 "but by that time, the damage is done
 "and the goods have been shipped."
 And so, this is the power of this kind of exploit.
 Now, it's true that the only credentials
 which will leak through this are those of the site
 which has the problem.
 So, for example, as far as we know,
 and certainly in March, Amazon.com had no trouble
 nor did eBay, but they have,
 eBay has notoriously historically had
 cross-site scripting problems and was abused like this.
 So, what happens is you definitely need to hope
 that your bank doesn't have cross-site scripting
 vulnerabilities because this is the kind of exploit
 that would really concern people
 who are doing electronic banking.
 And of course, the double whammy is you typically have
 to have scripting enabled in your browser
 in order to use the banking site.
 So, the beauty of all of this is if you had no scripting
 in your browser, your browser would ignore
 that start script and script tag.
 It would skip right over it
 and you'd see something missing on the page,
 but there's no vulnerability.
 The vulnerability comes from the client browser
 which is being tricked because of this leakage
 of unintended text from a trusted website
 like Amazon or eBay or your favorite blogging site
 or whatever you're using where a hacker
 has been able to inject their own text into that flow.
 When that happens, you can get into trouble.
 And so, this is not a problem, like for example,
 like three days ago, we had the huge problem
 with Windows animated cursor exploit
 that was gonna be immediately exploited at one
 and was immediately exploited essentially worldwide.
 Instead, these kinds of vulnerabilities
 because they are specific to applications,
 specific vulnerabilities and specific applications,
 they tend to be more targeted attacks.
 That is, it doesn't make sense to try to send everybody
 a link to a known problematic blog
 and have them go there because they may never have been
 there before, they'd haven't established an identity,
 they don't have any log on credentials to be stolen.
 So that doesn't make any sense.
 But you can merge these with social engineering attacks.
 For example, knowing that a site is vulnerable
 and wanting to be up to some mischief,
 you could, for example, if it was a blogging site
 or an online forum site, you could start chatting
 with people, find out a little bit about who they are
 and then send them a link saying, hey, check this out.
 And when they click on the link, essentially,
 that goes to one of the forum pages
 where there's a known scripting vulnerability
 that will cause them to cause their browser
 to divulge their credentials to this third party,
 which allows them to then log on as that first party user
 and essentially pretend to be them on the blogging site
 and cause all kinds of mischief.
 - Ah, that's interesting.
 That's an interesting combination of social engineering
 and hacking, which more and more, that's what you're seeing.
 I mean, you wanna get the job done, that's how to do it.
 - Well, exactly.
 And so for the targeted kinds of attacks,
 and for example, I think we mentioned a couple weeks ago
 when we were talking about China deliberately attacking
 the Defense Department, those are targeted attacks
 where they will take known cross-site scripting vulnerabilities
 and remember that one of the real gotchas with this
 is that it is a firewall penetrating attack,
 meaning that if somebody from outside,
 for example, outside the United States,
 I don't want me to pick on China by any means,
 but that does seem to be where the bandwidth
 that these attacks is emanating largely.
 - Important, by the way, you point out the bandwidth,
 but not necessarily the attackers, since they--
 - Exactly. - They can spoof
 any location, obviously.
 - Exactly, or bounce through proxies in China
 and actually be located anywhere else.
 - You may just mean that's where
 the most unprotected machines are.
 We don't know what it means, really.
 - Well, and historically, when we look at the demographics
 of the machines that have been infected by worms,
 China has been a large infection target,
 meaning that if nothing else, their windows machines
 were not being kept currently patched.
 So whether they were legitimate or not is impossible to guess,
 but so a email from like scattered across the,
 Defense Department, containing a URL
 to an intranet server inside of the security perimeter
 of the Defense Department would then have preferred access
 to whatever was going on.
 And even there, by allowing the browser
 to trust the intranet server,
 the cross-site scripting vulnerability
 is able to use those enhanced power credentials
 in order to get up to much more mischief internally
 and essentially establish a stronghold
 inside of the external security perimeter.
 So I mean, these are real problems.
 They're not like, oh my God, the sky is falling,
 Windows has a zero-day exploit scale problem.
 But in terms of how they affect individual users,
 either everybody who is using a certain vulnerable
 blogging site or people who are being socially engineered
 where there's someone trying to get you
 and these sorts of problems,
 if they find out what sites you visit
 and then cross-reference that versus known vulnerabilities,
 they have a way of targeting people.
 And it's also worth mentioning that you notice
 that we were seeing, okay, those 28 problems
 I read just from last month
 and didn't go back any further.
 I mean, this is always happening.
 So one of the problems is that many sites
 that will be using these web packages
 are not updating them at the same rate
 or level of frequency if ever
 that Microsoft is updating Windows.
 So the other thing that's in, you know,
 that is helping Windows is that we're all now slaved
 to this second Tuesday of the month, if not sooner.
 - Or first Tuesday if it needs to be.
 - Yes, exactly, update paradigm.
 Whereas many of these shopping cart and blogging
 and you know, you know, web 2.0 tools,
 they install them, they get them running
 and then the developer, you know, his contract runs out
 or he's off to do something else.
 They're not being maintained at the same level
 that Windows is.
 So many sites that will talk about the versions
 of their PHP, whatever it is they're running,
 the hackers look at that and they go, okay, cool.
 We can hack this anytime we want.
 And they just sort of leave it there.
 These problems tend not to get found
 because they're not huge world shaking problems.
 They're little specific sort of like vertical problems
 that can be exploited whenever a hacker has an opportunity
 or for whatever reason needs to.
 But they exist all over the internet right now.
 - Well, and I was gonna say it's a PHP problem
 but then you have some Perl scripts in there too
 which run out of CGI dash bin.
 So it's not that it's purely that it's running out of it.
 It's just, you know, a lot of programmers are not used
 to looking at the inputs and making sure that it's valid
 and pretending.
 - And again, Elio, as I've said before,
 I mean, as a developer myself,
 the psychology of the developer is,
 oh, can I just get this thing working?
 I just wanna be done with this.
 I wanna get this working as my boss is breathing down my neck
 and I'm already three weeks late.
 And so there isn't that awareness.
 And again, as a developer,
 I really respect how clever many of these hacks are.
 For example, there are filters
 which will attempt to look for open bracket script,
 close bracket.
 I mean, that's the most obvious thing you would filter out.
 But it turns out that there are very clever ways
 to obscure even that token.
 You can use all kinds of weird Unicode escape.
 You can even use, there's even some ways
 of using some permissible script
 to expand to in to non permissible scripting.
 I mean, it's, you know, so that again,
 the hackers are sitting here pounding on this,
 trying to figure out how they can break in,
 whereas the developers are just happy
 that the thing seems to work
 and not crash the server anymore.
 So, I mean, it's two very different mindsets
 with radically different goals.
 And the big problem is that the people
 who are developing these are not security experts.
 They're generally, you know,
 I mean, I talk to people all the time
 who are barely coders.
 They go, well, you know, I learned PHP
 in order to implement my own blog.
 - Well, that's how PHP was written.
 It was a personal homepage program designed
 to do exactly that.
 - Right, so I mean, and it's an easy to learn language.
 So it's made for amateurs.
 So, almost by definition, amateurs
 are not gonna know about this,
 about all the problems that they're opening themselves
 and more importantly, their users of their insecure sites to
 due to the nature of this kind of problem.
 - Well, I'm glad that we can clarify this
 and I hope that anybody who's thinking
 about doing some programming
 will think about validating user input
 'cause clearly that's where the problem lies.
 - Yes, that is the nature of it.
 I've got three really good links on our show notes
 for this week.
 A couple of white papers that talk about this
 in more detail, show code samples
 so people can actually see how this works in real life.
 And the third link is to a really nice consortium.
 I think they're about, boy, I don't know, 80 some members.
 It's OWASP, O-W-A-S-P, the Open Web Application Security Project.
 This is an organization clearly formed
 because of the recognition of, you know,
 this kind of real pervasive problem.
 There's a bunch of utilities there.
 They've got some scanners and some tools and guidelines.
 And so if we do have, I'm sure we do have,
 I know we have, in fact, 'cause I know some of them.
 They've written to me web designers
 who are listening to security now
 and this episode has really caught your attention.
 I highly recommend it's the third link
 on the security now notes for this episode 86
 or just put in OWASP, O-W-A-S-P in a Google and you'll get there
 and they've got a whole bunch of great resources.
 - Excellent, g-r-c.com, that's the place.
 To go, as long as I'm pointing you to places to go,
 I might remind you that this podcast is sponsored by
 our good friends at Astaro, the ultimate security folks.
 They really are good.
 The Astaro security gateway is used by many businesses
 to protect themselves and now version seven just came out
 and it has so many nice new features.
 The usual, of course, anti-virus, anti-spyware content
 filtering, IM and P2P control, network firewall,
 remote access and VPN intrusion protection,
 but they've now added encryption and decryption
 at the server side so that no additional software
 is required by your users.
 There you have now secure remote access via SSL VPN,
 the easiest to implement.
 And of course they scale very well.
 You can cluster up to 10 different
 at Astaro security gateways together eliminating the need
 to install additional load balancing.
 It's patent pending technology actually,
 it increases the speed and reliability of your network.
 As your network grows, so does Astaro.
 Don't forget you can get a free trial by calling 877,
 the number four AST AR08774 Astaro in your business.
 And if you're a home non-commercial user,
 those home licenses now have been extended
 in the V7 package.
 You get everything in the base,
 license plus all subscriptions and Astaro up to date
 that used to be 79 euros per year.
 Now it's free for up to 10 IPs,
 10 users and 1,000 current connections.
 So Astaro security gateway for the home user
 is an incredible deal if you've got an old PC lying around,
 highly recommended.
 ASTARO.com, we thank them so much for their support.
 So we've wrapped another sucker up here and well done,
 I must say Steve, I am fascinated by the subject.
 Are we done with cross service side scripting
 or is it gonna be?
 - Well, we're done with this,
 but next week I wanna talk about another equally troublesome
 remote injection.
 This is not the same sort though,
 this is called SQL injection or SQL injection.
 - Oh yeah.
 - A big problem, I've been subject to that myself.
 A lot of forums had problems with SQL injections.
 Okay, that'll be next week on security.
 Now for transcripts of this edition
 and 16 kilobit versions for the bandwidth impaired,
 go to stevesightgrc.com.
 That's where you'll find his show notes,
 those links he mentioned.
 And of course his great program Spinrite,
 which is really the file,
 a rather disk maintenance and recovery utility
 just ask the nerds on site, they know.
 S-P-I-N-R-I-T-E.info for testimonials or grc.com
 by yourself and come.
 Steve will wrap this thing up with any luck.
 We won't have any emergency updates
 between now and next Thursday.
 We'll see you on next Thursday on security now.
 Right over here.
  Security now 
