 Hello everybody, Leo LaPorte here.
 Steve Gibson is not.
 We put a fire in the fireplace where he normally sits
 because Steve gets the week off.
 He doesn't like it when he gets a week off,
 but we made him take a week off
 so we could cover the best of 2021.
 The best episodes, the best memories,
 the best fun jokes,
 well, maybe not so many of those,
 from security now, next.
 - Podcasts you love.
 - From people you trust.
 - This is Twit.
 - This is Security Now with Steve Gibson,
 episode 851 for Tuesday, December 28th, 2021,
 the best of 2021.
 This episode of Security Now is brought to you by Zipper Gruder.
 Several industries are projected to grow in 2022.
 If you own a business in one of these growing industries
 and you need to hire,
 well, let me tell you, go to Zipper Gruder.
 They find qualified candidates for your job fast.
 Try Zipper Gruder free today at zippergruder.com/securitynow.
 Security now, normally this is the time
 when Steve would give you the Vulcan salute.
 Let me give it to you for you.
 Steve Gibson, really the hero of the hour
 when it comes to security.
 And was this a year or was this a year
 topped off at the beginning
 by a massive security flaw, thanks to Microsoft,
 capped off at the end by the worst security flaw
 in 10 years and sprinkled throughout
 with security flaws of all kinds.
 Let's kick things off with the way the year kicked off
 with solar winds.
 - Solar winds attack details, continue to emerge.
 As we know, digital attack forensics takes time.
 And most of it requires very careful
 reverse engineering of code
 which has been carefully designed to thwart
 exactly that kind of analysis.
 So it's not just like random script kitty code
 that's like a Python source
 where you just look at it and go, "Oh, this is what it does."
 You know, especially in the case of the solar wind
 threat actors, we know,
 and we're gonna know a lot more in a minute
 about how incredibly good they were at their craft.
 So they designed their stuff to make it very difficult
 to figure out what it was doing.
 So we would expect to be learning more
 about this largest known attack in history over time.
 And indeed, last Wednesday the 20th,
 in a joint posting by the Microsoft 365 Defender Research Team,
 their threat intelligence center.
 That's the MSTIC that we often talk about.
 And the Microsoft Cyber Defense Operations Center,
 that's a new one that the CDOC, CDOC,
 we learned a great deal more.
 For what it's worth, it's only more worrisome.
 Microsoft's joint disclosure was titled Deep Dive
 into the Solora Gate Second Stage Activation
 from sunburst to teardrop to raindrop.
 And Microsoft begins their quite lengthy disclosure
 with a summary of what everyone knows,
 and then, but quickly adds some new detail,
 which is interesting.
 They said more than a month into the discovery of Solora Gate,
 investigations continue to unearth new details
 that prove it as one of the most sophisticated
 and protracted intrusion attempts of the decade.
 Our continued analysis of threat data
 shows that the attackers behind Solora Gate
 are skilled campaign operators
 who carefully planned and executed the attack,
 remaining elusive while maintaining persistence.
 These attackers appear to be knowledgeable
 about operation security and performing malicious activity
 with minimal footprint.
 In this blog, we'll share new information
 to help better understand how the attack transpired.
 Our goal is to continue empowering the defender community
 by helping to increase their ability
 to hunt for the earliest artifacts of compromise
 and protect their networks from this threat.
 They said we've published our in-depth analysis
 of the Solora Gate Backdoor Malware,
 also referred to as sunburst by FireEye.
 The compromised DLL that was deployed on networks
 as part of SolarWinds products
 that allowed attackers to gain backdoor access
 to affected devices.
 We've also detailed the hands-on keyboard techniques
 that attackers employed on compromised endpoints
 using a powerful second stage payload,
 one of several custom cobalt strike loaders,
 including the loader dubbed teardrop by FireEye
 and a variant named Raindrop by Symantec.
 One missing link in the complex Solora Gate attack chain
 is the handover from the Solora Gate DLL Backdoor
 to the cobalt strike loader.
 Our investigations show that the attackers
 went out of their way to ensure
 that these two components are separated
 as much as possible to evade detection.
 This blog provides details about this handover
 based on a limited number of cases
 where this process has been observed to occur.
 To uncover these cases,
 we use the powerful cross-domain optics
 of Microsoft 365 Defender to gain visibility
 across the entire attack chain
 in one complete and consolidated view.
 We'll also share our deep dive
 into additional hands-on keyboard techniques
 that the attackers used during initial reconnaissance data
 collection and exfiltration,
 which complement the broader TTPs
 from similar investigative blogs,
 such as those from FireEye and Velocity.
 And so I'm gonna skip over a lot of that nitty gritty
 because it's interesting for anyone who's interested
 and I've got the link in the show notes.
 But here's the cool bit that is understandable.
 They said an attack timeline that SolarWinds disclosed
 in a recent blog showed that a fully functional
 Solora Gate DLL Backdoor was compiled
 at the end of February 2020.
 Okay, so early in 2020, last year,
 and distributed to systems sometime in late March,
 the same blog also said that the attackers,
 and this is, this I did not know,
 removed the Solora Gate Backdoor code
 from SolarWinds build environment in June of 2020.
 They said considering this timeline
 and the fact that the Solora Gate Backdoor
 was designed to stay dormant for at least two weeks,
 we approximate that the attackers spent a month or so
 in selecting victims
 and preparing unique cobalt strike implants
 as well as command and control infrastructure.
 This approximation means that real hands-on keyboard activity
 most likely started as early as May.
 The removal of the Backdoor generation function
 and the compromised code from SolarWinds binaries in June
 could indicate that by this time,
 the attackers had reached a sufficient number
 of interesting targets
 and their objectives shifted from deployment
 and activation of the Backdoor, so-called stage one,
 to being operational on selected victim networks,
 continuing the attack with hands-on keyboard activity
 using the cobalt strike implants.
 So as I said, again, that was news to me.
 I assumed that the SolarWinds build
 and update delivery system had remained infected,
 but that's not the case.
 As Microsoft observed, it didn't need to keep offering
 infected DLLs once all of the major targets
 had already updated and received the infection.
 Essentially, they'd already gotten out
 over the course of what, six months?
 Well, March, April, May, June, so maybe four months.
 And then again, in observing the highest level of care,
 they removed the source of the infection
 so that the SolarWinds DLL would then be clean
 and further updates would remove it
 from the systems that had previously received it
 and had already moved from stage one into stage two.
 So an act of deliberately eliminating the tracks
 of how this all happened.
 So one of the coolest things Microsoft found
 was the way the original SolarWinds infection
 created this arm's length execution path
 in such a way that the original infection
 stood a maximum chance of remaining undetected
 even if its downstream consequences were detected.
 Remember that the moment it was discovered,
 the moment that it was discovered that a signed
 SolarWinds DLL was the root source of the infection,
 that would have brought down the entire operation.
 And as we know, that is what eventually happened at FireEye,
 but the obfuscation was successful for a very long time.
 So here's how Microsoft explains what they found.
 They said, "We spent countless hours investigating
 Microsoft Defender telemetry and other signals
 from potential patient zero machines
 running the backdoor version of SolarWinds DLL.
 Most of these machines communicated
 with the initial randomly generated DNS domain.
 Remember that it was blah, blah, blah,
 dot A-V-S-V-M cloud dot com.
 They said, "But without significant activity.
 However, we saw limited cases in May and June
 where the initial DNS network communication
 was closely followed by network activity on port 443,
 HTTPS, to other legitimate looking domains.
 On these handful of machines,
 we performed deep inspection of telemetry.
 We know that the Soloregate backdoor
 only activates for certain victim profiles.
 And when this happens, the executing process
 usually SolarWinds.businesslayerhost.exe
 creates two files on the victim disk.
 A VB script, typically named after existing services
 or folders to blend into legitimate activities
 on the machine and a second stage DLL implant,
 which is a custom cobalt strike loader
 typically compiled uniquely per machine
 and written into a legitimate looking subfolder
 underneath C colon backslash windows.
 So in other words, they on a per infection target,
 they created a VB script that was uniquely named
 to fit in to what was going on on that particular machine.
 And custom wrote and compiled a unique,
 they called it the cobalt strike loader again for that machine.
 So one of the things this did was it meant
 you could not compare infected systems.
 You wouldn't find any obvious indications of compromise
 that were the same because they were essentially doing
 per target customization.
 Microsoft said at this point, the attackers are ready
 to activate the cobalt strike implant.
 However, the attackers apparently deem
 the powerful SolarWinds backdoor too valuable to lose
 in case of discovery.
 So they tried to separate the cobalt strike loader's
 execution from the SolarWinds process as much as possible.
 Their hope is that even if they lose the cobalt strike
 implant due to discovery and detection,
 the compromised SolarWinds binary and the supply chain
 attack that preceded it will not be exposed.
 The attackers achieved this by having the SolarWinds process
 create an image file execution options
 that's I-F-E-O debugger registry value
 for the process dllhost.exe.
 And I'll just insert an aside here.
 This is a known and official way of causing windows
 to attach a debugger to a process at startup.
 If you wanna put a given windows process under debugging,
 sometimes it's not enough to attach the debugger
 after the process is already initialized.
 You need like there may be initialization code
 that is where the problem is.
 So you need windows to start the debugging
 like from the moment the process goes into RAM.
 The way you do that is by using one of this image file
 execution options debugger registry values
 which causes windows to automatically load something
 into that process of space.
 This of course can also be used for malicious purposes.
 So that the SolarWinds process first created
 one of these entries which would for the dllhost.exe.
 That execution process triggers a launch
 of wscript.exe which is configured to run
 that vbscript file which has been dropped earlier
 and had been waiting.
 The vbscript in turn runs the run dll32.exe
 which activates the cobalt strike dll
 using a clean parent child process tree
 which is completely disconnected
 from the SolarWinds process.
 So essentially by using this sanctioned windows hook
 in the registry to cause the dllhost
 to invoke wscript.exe there was a complete separation
 of these two events.
 Meaning that anybody who did discover
 the cobalt strike dll and the way it got executed
 would only see that it was tied to this debugging.
 Oh, and once it runs it removes the IFEO value
 from the registry to also clean that up
 so you can't even figure out how this thing got started
 if you look at it after it's running.
 So anyway, their full posting as I mentioned
 is super long and wonderfully detailed
 for anyone wanting to really get down into the nitty gritty
 but in the section additional attacker tactics,
 anti forensic behavior and operational security,
 Microsoft nicely summarizes some more detail
 to give us a more complete sense
 for the frightening skill and trade craft
 that the designers of this attack deployed.
 They said, as mentioned,
 the attackers behind Soloregate are skillful and methodical
 operators who follow operations, security, best practices
 to minimize traces stay under the radar and avoid detection.
 During our in-depth analysis of the attacker's tactics,
 techniques and procedures, TTPs,
 seen through the lens of Microsoft 365 defenders telemetry,
 we observed a few techniques that are worth disclosing
 to help other defenders better respond to this incident
 and use hunting tools like Microsoft 365 defender,
 advanced hunting or Azure Sentinel queries
 to search for potential traces of past activity.
 Some examples of why these attackers stand out
 for their operational, obsec methodology
 and anti forensic behavior are listed below
 and they have six or five.
 First, methodical avoidance of shared indicators
 for each compromised host.
 As discussed in the previous section,
 each cobalt strike DLL implant
 was prepared to be unique per machine
 and avoided at any cost, overlap and reuse
 of folder name, file name, export function names,
 those are internal to the DLL, command and control domain
 and IP, HTTP requests, timestamp, file metadata,
 config and child processes launched.
 They said this extreme level of variance
 was also applied to non-executable entities
 such as WMI persistence filter name, WMI filter query,
 passwords used for seven zip archives
 and names of output log files.
 I mean, so what we're looking at is an absolute lack
 of laziness, I mean, true discipline
 for every single entity that they infected.
 They said applying this level of permutations
 for each individual compromised machine
 is an incredible effort normally not seen
 with other adversaries and done to prevent full identification
 of all compromised assets inside a network
 or effective sharing of threat intel between victims.
 Second, camouflage and blending into the environment,
 tools and binaries used by the attackers,
 for example, AD find, active directory find, legit tool,
 were always renamed and placed in folders
 that mimicked existing programs and files
 already present on a machine.
 This blending was not just used for files
 but for other elements.
 For example, WMI persistent filters were created
 with names and queries matching other scripts present
 in affected organizations.
 This is just stunning.
 It's third, before running intensive and continued hands
 on keyboard activity, the attackers took care
 of disabling event logging using audit policy
 and re-enabling it afterward.
 In a similar way, before running noisy network
 enumeration activities such as repeated NS lookup
 and LDAP queries, the attackers carefully prepared
 special firewall rules to minimize outgoing packets
 for certain protocols.
 The firewall rules were also methodically removed
 after the network reconnaissance was completed.
 I hope this is terrifying everybody.
 This is just terrifying me.
 Lateral movement activities were never executed
 without preparation to increase the likelihood
 that their activities remain undetected.
 The attackers first enumerated remote processes
 and services running on the target host
 and decided to move laterally only after disabling
 certain security services.
 And finally, they said, we believe that the attackers
 used time stomping to change time stamps of artifacts
 and also leveraged professional wiping procedures
 and tools to complicate finding and recovering
 of DLL implants from affected environments.
 - I like time stomping.
 I'm gonna keep that in my backpack at pocket there.
 - Time stomping, yes.
 Stepping back to take stock in all that we have learned,
 any sane infosec technologist would be right
 to be seriously worried.
 My feeling is that as damaging as these attacks
 were individually and on their own,
 it's almost more worrisome that it's almost more worrisome
 outcome for the attackers is for us to have obtained
 this much greater appreciation for their skill
 and their dedication to detail.
 It has without questioned, sobered up and heightened
 the level of attention that the defender industry
 now realizes it needs to deploy.
 And remember, none of us should forget for a moment
 that were it not for the fact that they targeted fire eye
 and that their presence eventually tripped
 some monitoring alarms that the attackers were unaware of
 because as we've just seen, if they knew about it,
 they would have either aborted
 or they would have disabled those monitoring alarms.
 Something tripped them up.
 If that had not happened,
 this would all still be ongoing right now.
 - Wow.
 And Leo on that happy note, let's take our second break.
 - And it's funny because there's not a lot
 of reporting anymore on this.
 It's kind of taking the backseat.
 - Old news.
 - Well, but also I think part of the problem is,
 I don't feel like there's much we can do about it.
 It's like, yeah, they're in there.
 - What do you want to do about it?
 You know, it's like the deed is done.
 - Yeah, the good news is, I think, that this level,
 I mean, so from Microsoft to post this, like--
 - I'm glad they're paying attention.
 - Yeah.
 - Yes, there's a, you know, it's any companies,
 for example, who thought, oh, you know, we're busy.
 I mean, yeah, who isn't?
 We don't have enough money.
 Yeah, who does?
 You know, we don't want to deeply invest in internal,
 you know, network monitoring surveillance.
 Well, think about that again, folks.
 You know, reconsider the cost of not doing that.
 You need an intrusion, you know, detection system
 that can, you know, spot something that is doing this
 and you need to hide it.
 That's the other thing we've learned.
 You know, the fact that it's possible
 for the bad guys to see machines
 and then remotely enumerate their running processes,
 you know, a lot has been learned.
 I think that's key.
 I agree, Leo, that on the general public level,
 it's like, oh, well, maybe the Russians hacked us.
 What's for lunch?
 - Yeah.
 - I hope we're doing the same.
 - Back to that. - On our internal level, you know,
 this has to have really sobered up the defense industry.
 - And it should.
 - And yes.
 - And I have to say,
 and probably somewhat due to this,
 I noticed Biden has been starting to appoint people
 to cybersecurity roles and really beefing up cybersecurity
 and picking some, I think, some good people,
 knowledgeable people, not just figureheads to do it.
 So I think that's, you know, that's the other side of it
 is that you're gonna see, I hope you're gonna see
 the US government be very proactive about this thing.
 - Appointing people who are anti-cyber security.
 - Yeah, that's not a good idea.
 - That's not a good idea.
 - That's not a good idea.
 Yeah.
 What do potato chips have to do with security?
 Well, we'll talk about that in just a little bit.
 But first, a word from our sponsor.
 Hey, we love that recruiter.
 So thrilled that the recruiter would sponsor
 the holiday episode of this show.
 It makes a lot of sense,
 because I think 2022 is gonna be a big year for hiring.
 People are gonna be coming back to work,
 companies are gonna be reopening,
 several industries projected to grow in 2022.
 I think it's gonna be an incredible year.
 A couple of the areas Zipprecruiter has pinpointed
 as being hot, sustainability.
 I think that's pretty obvious.
 New eco-friendly products and services, cropping up.
 You know what's gonna be big in 2022?
 Pet services, pet services.
 More training, walking, and feeding services.
 For all those pets, people had stopped it.
 During COVID fitness, we're going back to the gym.
 And for many people, non-traditional workout studios
 like Kickboxing and Pilates are taken off.
 I have a friend who owns a couple of body rocks.
 They're hiring digital events and conferences.
 They're back, the CES, it's back.
 So there's gonna be a lot of work planning
 and hosting online events and in-person events
 in the 2022 home improvement.
 Those of us who are stuck at home
 have been doing a lot of home improvement.
 In fact, I have to tell you, it's been really hard
 to get to find people, to come in handymen, contractors.
 That's a big growth area.
 If you work for or you own a business
 in one of these growing industries
 or a whole lot of other industries,
 it may well be that you are hiring
 and you needed to hire fast.
 Well, there's only one place to go.
 That's ZipRecruiter.
 Right now, you could try it free at zipprecruiter.com/security.
 Now, why is ZipRecruiter better?
 Oh, I can go on and on because we use it, we love it.
 For one thing, once you post in ZipRecruiter,
 your job listing goes wide, more than 100 job listing websites,
 social networks, you're more likely to reach
 the right person for that job than anywhere else.
 ZipRecruiter also makes it easy
 because instead of flooding your inbox with emails
 or your phone with messages,
 ZipRecruiter handles it all internally
 and they're easy to use interface
 where they reformat all the resumes
 to make them easy to read.
 And then there's one thing ZipRecruiter does
 that makes a huge difference.
 ZipRecruiter, when you post a listing in ZipRecruiter,
 searches through all the resumes they have access to
 to find candidates that are right for your job.
 You get the list, you send them an invite,
 history shows that when people get invited to apply
 for a job, they're much more likely to apply.
 This has really made a difference.
 It means people who use ZipRecruiter
 on average will get qualified candidates
 when they're the first day.
 In fact, for us, it's been within hours
 of posting that listing.
 That is exactly what you want.
 Ain't nobody got time to spend weeks hiring?
 Get it done fast.
 ZipRecruiter's the number one rated hiring site in the US
 based on G2 ratings.
 And again, you can try ZipRecruiter for free.
 If your business is booming,
 ziprecruiter.com/securitynow.
 S-E-C-U-R-I-T-Y-N-O-W.
 Please use that address so they know you saw it here.
 And thank you, ZipRecruiter, for supporting us all these years.
 We look forward to a great 2022 together.
 Now, back to the best of security now.
 Who would have thought?
 Potato chips would be involved in security.
 This is another one of those classic,
 what could possibly go wrong moments, listen?
 This is just not gonna believe.
 And before adding this to today's show,
 I had to like really drill down and verify that it was true.
 And not an April Fool's posting.
 - Oh dear. - But it appears to be 100% legitimate.
 And I learned this from Bleeping Computer,
 who's very good about vetting their stories.
 It is a Chrome browser web extension called
 Crispy Subtitles from Lays.
 - What?
 - Lays potato chips?
 - Yeah, Lays potato chips.
 After this browser extension has been installed,
 any time you are watching a YouTube video,
 and the system's AI-trained microphone
 detects the sound of crispy chips being eaten,
 YouTube captions will be automatically enabled
 to allow anyone, including yourself,
 to be able to obtain the video's dialogue information
 over the sound of noisy chips being crunched.
 - That's hysterical. - Yes.
 - That's hysterical. - That's hysterical.
 - Lawrence Abrams at Bleeping Computer explained
 that to make it easier to watch YouTube videos,
 the creative agency Happiness Saigon
 partnered with Frito-Lay
 to create the Lays Crispy Subtitles browser extension
 that automatically enables YouTube captions
 when it detects you are eating chips.
 Lawrence says that to achieve this,
 Happiness Saigon trained an AI algorithm
 using 178 hours of recordings
 of people eating chips from all over the world.
 He ate furthermore.
 He said that Bleeping Computer used the extension
 and was pleasantly surprised by how the extension
 immediately enabled YouTube captions
 when their microphone picked up the noisy sound
 of chips being eaten.
 He added that they had performed some tests
 with other food groups, including peanuts,
 carrots, and cereal.
 While peanuts and carrots were not noisy enough
 or crunchy enough, eating cereal also enabled captions
 in their tests to see what would trigger the extension.
 He concluded, "Your results may vary depending upon
 how noisy you eat your food."
 - That's hysterical.
 That sounds hysterical.
 - Just like really, is this true?
 This is, if it weren't good at the end of March--
 - It's just good marketing.
 - It's marketing, you know?
 - Yeah.
 - I don't think many people will install it.
 - Oh, it's not malicious, right?
 I mean, it's just--
 - No, no, it's far as we know,
 it's a legitimate app from Frito-Lay
 to advertise it like now you can munch and crunch
 and not worry about having to turn the volume up
 or bothering anybody else, you'll just get captions.
 I mean, really, this, Leo,
 this is why we have computer technologies.
 This was what it was all meant to do.
 Dan Kaminsky cut a wide swath
 through the computer industry.
 He was a prolific tweeter and a real character
 and personality.
 He and I were last together.
 We followed each other on stage
 during Digisert's first security conference
 and Dan peppered me with some questions about squirrel
 back then, and I was able to satisfy his many salient
 questions.
 He was probably first on the map for this podcast
 when he realized in doing some,
 just some research that he was always up to
 that the transactions which the all of the DNS servers
 throughout the industry were using
 had way too little entropy.
 Their port numbers for the queries they were generating
 were often sequential.
 So they were marching through the port space
 and often the transaction IDs which is a 16 bit number
 that is used to associate queries with the replies
 when they come back.
 Those were also sometimes a fixed,
 well, they weren't a fixed number.
 Ports were sometimes fixed,
 but the transaction IDs might just be an incrementing counter.
 And what Dan realized was that the lack of query entropy
 being emitted by DNS servers allowed replies to be spoofed.
 You could ask a DNS server yourself something
 and see where its counters were
 and then induce somebody else to ask it a question
 and provide a spoofed reply before the real reply
 would get back.
 And because you knew where the counters were
 you were able to with high accuracy
 get a spoof to be accepted as legitimate.
 And that's, because the DNS runs over UDP
 there is no TCP handshake to validate IPs.
 So you're able to completely spoof the replies.
 So what this meant was if the world were to realize that
 as Dan had privately, it would be a catastrophe.
 So Dan privately got in touch with all the purveyors
 of the various DNS servers.
 They all recognized what he had.
 And privately all of the servers were updated
 and an industry wide reveal was coordinated
 in order to maximize the probability
 of getting all this fixed with that before the bad guys
 had a chance to abuse it.
 So, and of course, because I recognized this was a problem
 and we covered it on the podcast we owe Dan
 the existence of my DNS spoofability service
 which I created in honor of his discovery
 which allowed individuals to go to the to GRC's DNS
 spoofability, I arranged to cause by setting
 on my own DNS, so our pseudo DNS servers,
 I could cause a visitor to my site's DNS
 to use me as its resolver.
 And then I collected all the queries
 that I was inducing through that webpage
 and analyze the nature of the queries coming from
 that the DNS servers that the user is using.
 Anyway, Dan has a large following, I think what is it?
 I had it here in my notes somewhere, 94.3,000 followers
 on Twitter, as I said, he's a prolific Twitter,
 he joined Twitter in 2007, since then,
 he has posted 130,000 tweets.
 Now, if we assume an average tweet rate over 14 years,
 that's 9,285.71 tweets per year
 or an average of 25.42 tweets or commented retweets per day.
 That's amazing. - So if you were following Dan,
 you knew what he was thinking and doing.
 And he was also quite literate.
 He pinned a tweet of his from January 16th, 2018
 to the top of his feed.
 He wrote this, "I'm increasingly thinking
 that every functioning system has two forms.
 The abstraction that outsiders are led to believe.
 And the reality that insiders actually
 and carefully operate.
 You don't incrementally learn a system,
 you eventually unlearn its necessary lies."
 - That's really good. - So I think it's absolutely right.
 Absolutely. - Just really,
 really good stuff.
 He had a site, DanKaminski.com, which was his personal blog.
 And he hasn't blogged in about four years,
 but that his last blog,
 I'll just share a couple paragraphs from it,
 he wrote, "Cryptographically secure pseudo-random
 number generators," right?
 We've talked about them a lot, a lot.
 CSPRNGs, he says, "are interesting.
 Given a relatively small amount of data,
 just 128 bits is fine.
 They generate an effectively unlimited stream of bits,
 completely indistinguishable from the ephemeral quantum noise
 of the universe.
 The output is as deterministic as the digits of pi,
 but no degree of scientific analysis,
 no amount of sample data will ever allow a model to form
 for what bits will come next.
 In a way, CSPRNGs represent the most practical demonstration
 of Girdle's first incompleteness theorem,
 which states that for a sufficiently complex system,
 there can be things that are true about it
 that can never be proven within the rules of that system.
 Science is literally the art of compressing vast amounts
 of experimentally derived output on the nature of things
 to a beautiful series of rules that explains it.
 But as much as we can model things from their output
 with math, math can create things we can never model.
 There can be a thing that is true.
 There are hidden variables in every CSPRNG,
 but we would never know.
 And so an interesting question emerges.
 If a CSPRNG is indistinguishable
 from the quantum noise of the universe,
 how would we know if the quantum noise of the universe
 was not itself a CSPRNG?
 There's an infinite number of ways
 to construct a random number generator.
 What if nature tried its luck and made one more?
 Would we know?
 Would it be any good?
 So anyway, we have lost a critical thinker among us
 who made all manner of contributions
 to security and the internet.
 And he was working on some weird JavaScript stuff
 that I never really tracked.
 But we have, and I wanted to play it into the podcast
 so that it is captured, a minute and 45 second video
 which he and his young niece produced 13 years ago,
 niece Sarah, following Black Hat 2008,
 which was where the DNS problem was first revealed.
 So here's, and this is fun 'cause his niece is precocious
 and following a script that he produced,
 but they made a really fun minute and 45 seconds.
 - I'm security researcher Dan Cominsky,
 and I'm here today with my niece Sarah.
 - Hi everybody.
 - Hey Sarah.
 So Sarah here has an important message for all of you.
 Victor DNS is so important and so cool.
 - Well, what's DNS, Sarah?
 - Well, I'll go down here while I think you should know.
 - Beat that as it may, why don't you tell the people
 about their little bit about it?
 - Well, DNS is a domain name system.
 It tells my computer where on the internet
 all my favorite websites are.
 - Well, is there something wrong with DNS?
 - It'll be okay, everyone got together a while back
 to make sure everything would work out.
 - Oh, everybody?
 Even ISC, the makers of Bind and Microsoft and Cisco
 and Nama, Nama.
 - You mean, Nama?
 - Totally not, but that's really cool.
 So, what should everyone do, Sarah?
 - Well, this is really easy stuff,
 but most people should get automatic updates and be okay.
 - Well, who might not?
 - Well, there might be some servers
 that don't get automatic updates
 because they're really important
 and people want to keep an eye on them.
 - Oh, so we should ask those people to take a look.
 - Call it.
 - Oh, well, when should they look?
 - Right now, duh.
 - Well, when do they have to fix it, Bob?
 - Well, the tech is pretty weird,
 but people will probably figure it out after a month,
 so I'll give you an exact date.
 August 6th, 2008.
 - August 6th?
 - August 6th.
 - All right, then.
 How is there any way for the non-geeks
 to make sure they're safe?
 - Only if you go from a website.
 - I'll get right on that.
 - You better.
 - Well, thanks, Sarah.
 And there you have it.
 Kids, talk to your parents about their DNS.
 They'll be glad you did.
 All right, that's enough.
 - All right, that's enough.
 - Okay, thanks, cousin Dan.
 And thank you, Maddie.
 - That's so sweet.
 Oh my God.
 Oh, I'm sure they miss him terribly.
 And of course, his friend, Steve,
 wrote something in assembly to do that,
 so it was okay.
 He didn't have to.
 You didn't have to do that.
 Wow.
 - Wow.
 - Yeah.
 Very cool.
 Also, Def Con has announced on their Twitter feed
 that they're having an online memorial for Dan
 on Sunday, May 2nd on the Def Con Discord channel,
 discord.gg/defcon.
 - Nice.
 - So they tweeted, come share your favorite stories
 and join us in celebrating the life of a hacker
 whose life elevated the whole community.
 - Wow.
 Good.
 - Yep.
 - Thank you for doing that, Steve.
 Yeah.
 Of course, his name comes up all the time
 on our shows.
 - Yeah.
 Yeah.
 He'll be missed.
 - Yeah.
 Good guy.
 - Yeah.
 - And for what it's worth, Dankaminski.com.
 I only shared the top of that really cool posting.
 He gets really into it.
 So, you know, if you're wondering maybe,
 if in fact, we are in the Matrix,
 Dan may give you some pause.
 Of course, I don't know how long the site'll be up.
 Hopefully it'll stay.
 So two weeks ago, surely before Apple's big spring loaded
 product announcement event,
 this SOTEN group,
 which is behind the Revil ransomware,
 began publicly leaking Apple's proprietary designs
 for its forthcoming Mac laptops.
 The group so-called happy blog,
 as it calls itself stated,
 "In order not to wait
 for the upcoming Apple presentations,
 today we, the Revil group,
 will provide data on the upcoming releases
 of the company so beloved by many."
 Tim Cook can say, "Thank you, Quanta."
 From our side, a lot of time has been devoted
 to solving this problem, unquote.
 Well, okay.
 So Quanta is, "Quanta Computer" is a Taiwanese company
 that assembles a number of Apple laptops
 and other consumer devices.
 I know they're watched as well,
 and I'm sure you, Leo, are more tuned up on this than I am
 since you get to talk to your Mac folks.
 Yeah, they do the laptops, I think.
 Is there a?
 Yeah.
 So when Quanta initially refused to negotiate
 with the Revil group,
 Quanta Computer is a large supplier,
 not only for Apple, but for others.
 In some of the news coverage,
 I saw that they said Thinkbook or ThinkPad,
 but I wasn't sure whether that one might have been a typo
 or maybe they actually are doing like construction
 for Lenovo, don't know.
 But anyway, it was Quanta Computer
 that was actually compromised by the Revil ransomware.
 It says, "All 10 top PC companies in the world use Quanta."
 So that's all of them, including Lenovo.
 Yeah.
 Exactly.
 So that's not the company.
 Well, it is the company that you would want to get inside
 if you were a ransomware gang.
 And of course, Apple would be particularly sensitive
 to the disclosure.
 We know how concerned they are over leaks.
 So they would be particularly concerned
 over this disclosure.
 The ransom demand was initially posted
 just hours before Apple's event.
 And the hackers said that they would release more documents
 every day adding, "We recommend that Apple
 buy back the available data by May 1st."
 And a similar extortion attempt from the same group
 aimed at Acer demanded $50 million
 in exchange for deleting Acer's files.
 And I saw the same number, 50 million
 was like the opening extortion level
 also for the Apple stuff.
 So groups throughout the internet began grabbing
 and analyzing the details from the leaks.
 And this stuff looked authentic
 and there's no reason to believe it wouldn't be.
 They noted some differences with the current models on sale,
 a new version of the MacBook Pro was shown
 without the touch bar.
 And it appeared that maybe HDMI ports
 might be staging a comeback along with SD card readers.
 So yeah, this early release was providing details
 that Apple would have rather been releasing themselves.
 What we know of Reville from the past
 is that they are tough negotiators
 who do not make idle threats.
 Of course, they don't want to acquire a reputation
 for not doing what they say they're gonna do
 or people will start ignoring them.
 So they're also not known for being soft
 or for backing down.
 So something must be going on
 because last week the Reville gang removed
 Apple's schematics, drawings and other data
 from their data leak site
 after first warning Quanta that they would leak drawings
 for the new iPad and the new Apple logos,
 which I thought was interesting.
 It's like, what, new Apple logos?
 So anyway, maybe Apple said, okay, look, Quanta,
 we need to stop this.
 - It did get quiet.
 They only released two schematics that I saw.
 - Right.
 And so what appears to have happened
 for reasons we can only guess
 is that Quanta finally responded to Reville
 and opened the dialogue.
 As part of a private chat,
 and I think it was Bleeping Computer
 who posted some screenshots of that,
 which they got somehow,
 Reville told Quanta that they hid the data leak page
 and will stop talking to reporters
 to allow negotiations to continue.
 And Reville stated that, quote, "Having started a dialogue
 with us, you can count on a good discount."
 And indeed, that does appear to be the case.
 Yeah, yeah, the institution.
 - The act of hate is saved 20%.
 - Oh, no, that's exactly what happens.
 So since the demand was updated,
 it now carries an expiration date
 of this coming Friday, May 7th.
 But it's been reduced from the initial request
 of 50 million down to the now much more seemingly affordable,
 20 million.
 - See, I can't see Apple paying a penny
 and Quanta shouldn't either.
 But at the same time,
 I also could see Apple being very concerned.
 - Yeah.
 - I mean, this is stuff they're gonna announce in June.
 - Various researchers have been quoted saying
 that this appears to be a pattern.
 The Reville gang apparently feels
 that forcing the opening of a dialogue with their victim
 is a crucial first step in getting paid.
 So what appears to be happening
 is we're seeing a pattern of them deliberately establishing
 like a reputation for dramatically reducing
 their initial ransom demand upon the establishment of a dialogue.
 So this asking 50 and immediately dropping to 20,
 that's what people are now coming to expect.
 And of course, I guess this provides some incentive
 for a victim to establish contact
 in order to obtain the more real ransom demand.
 And also, of course, in the process serves to break the ice
 and it's like, well, now, of course,
 we're all put in mind of that old joke about prostitution.
 You know, like, okay, well, we've determined what you are,
 now we're just negotiating a price.
 So, you know, this is the world we're in.
 And of course, we'll be talking about
 this takedown task force here
 or the, well, the ransomware task force shortly.
 - But you could almost say that this was the year
 of the rise and fall of Reville.
 I mean, fascinating to watch.
 And of course, we covered that each step of the way
 on security now.
 Coming up, we'll talk captures.
 Actually, they call this the doom capture.
 I don't think it captured on, to be honest.
 - Okay, Leo, you're gonna wanna go and test your skill.
 It took me an embarrassing number of times
 to prove I was human, grc.sc/820.
 It is our shortcut of the week.
 - I hate these captions, I just hate 'em.
 - Well, this is the doom capture.
 It's a joke. - Is it my doom
 or your doom or my doom, huh?
 Okay. - It's at, well, no,
 it is the game doom.
 - Oh, oh. - Yes.
 (laughing)
 - Okay, so kill four enemies.
 I think a computer could do this very easily.
 One, two, I mean, really, how hard is this?
 A game over?
 - Yeah, you didn't do it quick enough, Leo.
 - You gotta do it fast.
 Computer could do it slowly.
 I see, there, whoa.
 Oh, okay, see now. - I like that.
 This tells me you really have been spending
 a lot of time with shooting style.
 - I spent a lot of time playing doom.
 - I took me like 10 tries to get that green check mark.
 - One, two, oh, I see the red progress bars by time.
 - I get it. - Yeah, yeah.
 - You don't like this thing, I get it, I take it.
 - Well, no, I just thought it was just,
 it occurred to the guy last Saturday morning.
 He coded it by the end of the day.
 It made number one product of the day
 over on Product Hunt.
 - Yeah, it's just a little in bed.
 Look at that. - Yeah.
 - It's just a cute little thing.
 So anyway, I just, I wanted to share it with our listeners.
 I thought I knew that a lot of we old timers
 would recognize that and get a kick out of it.
 - Oh, wait a minute, I didn't have the sound to it.
 Turned on, is it? - Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
 - Dooms sounding? - Oh, yes.
 - Oh, yeah, let's see.
 (upbeat music)
 - But I don't mind, 'cause I got the doom sound effect.
 - That's hysterical.
 I wonder how Carmack is at this.
 That's great, how fun is that?
 That's hysterical.
 - Bloomberg reported on Friday that some of the,
 well, some of the findings by Mandiant,
 which is the group within FireEye,
 who has been working with Colonial Pipeline
 to figure out how this happened.
 As always, attribution and post-attack forensics is difficult.
 But there's very strong evidence to support the theory
 that the attackers used a compromised VPN account password.
 - Yep.
 - It was just like the Florida water plant.
 They were all using the same password.
 And the account was no longer active,
 but it was still usable.
 - Right, the VPN login, I know, no two-factor ridiculous.
 - The VPN login in question,
 which lacked any multi-factor authentication protection,
 was not in use.
 But it had been left active, and it was
 at the time of the attack.
 The account's password was discovered inside a batch
 of leaked passwords on the dark web.
 - And you know why that was, I'll go ahead,
 I'll let you finish this sentence, yep.
 - This suggests that an employee of the company
 may have reused that same password
 on another account that was previously breached.
 - So colonial was not requiring password managers.
 They were letting employees set their own passwords.
 Monkey123, oh, I use it on everything.
 It's easy to remember.
 Unbelievable.
 - Unbelievable.
 - So the takeaways are a little late,
 and it's always easy to admonish with,
 I told you so's after the fact,
 but unused accounts should always be disabled.
 Authentication should require multiple factors.
 And I suppose that while I've never been a fan
 of forced password changing,
 so long as the new passwords are unique and not shared,
 forcing a change might have prevented this entire mess.
 I was recently informed that my log on
 to the management portal for level three
 would be expiring,
 since I had not logged into it in six months.
 Okay, that's annoying.
 But it's good policy.
 And for things that are mission critical,
 like remote VPN access into a corporate network,
 the pain is clearly worth the game.
 So yeah, the one good thing that will arise
 from this attention, this is not unwanted attention.
 This is good attention that the world is now paying to this,
 because as we've often talked about,
 the CIOs, the chief information offices,
 have been running around the C-suite executives
 screaming about needing more, more, more.
 We need more budget.
 We need more closet space.
 We need, you know, whatever it is.
 You know, they are resource constrained, you know?
 We need to replace this crap, which is 20 years old,
 because we can't, and the boss is, well, it works, don't it?
 (laughing)
 It works until it doesn't.
 Yeah, exactly.
 It works until nothing suddenly does.
 And this was the IT department was hacked.
 So surely they should have done better, God.
 Again, the beauty of the press is that, you know,
 when the executives go home, their wives are now asking them,
 money, you know, things that never occurred to them to ask,
 you know, what's the budget for, you know,
 for your company's security?
 Because, you know, I would really hate if Mabel at the club,
 you know, was able to scold me for, you know,
 your company being attacked.
 That's cool.
 Plastic bags are gasoline in their trunk.
 Exactly.
 Which should never have to happen.
 Before you go into this next story about John McAfee,
 I do wanna tell people what you're about to hear.
 Might be triggering if you're considering suicide.
 There is a national suicide prevention lifeline
 in the United States.
 You can call right now for free
 and get free confidential support if you're in distress.
 Great crisis resources for you or your loved ones
 is 1-800-273-TALK, 1-800-273-8255.
 And we just want to be responsible
 since we're gonna talk about John McAfee.
 Next.
 And we know that COVID has been an extra stressor
 for people, especially teenagers.
 I know of two teenagers who took the very poor choice
 because of, I think because of loneliness during COVID.
 So, yeah, we're all going through it,
 but you don't have to go through it alone.
 And if you're not in the United States,
 you can Google suicide prevention lifeline
 and you'll be able to find one in your area.
 Good, I'm--
 We don't wanna lose you.
 We don't, we want you to be around.
 Anyway, I was unhappy when I was younger and--
 It's normal.
 And that's the problem with suicide.
 It's a permanent solution to a temporary problem.
 You know, things do get better.
 I know, and, but sometimes we just can't take it
 and don't do it, don't do it.
 So, I wanted to note that last Wednesday,
 John McAfee was found dead by hanging
 at the age of 75 in his jail cell in Barcelona, Spain.
 His extradition to the United States
 where he would have been facing a number
 of legal charges of willful tax evasion
 had finally been approved by a court in Spain.
 And despite his earlier statements
 that he would never take his own life.
 And he said that foul play would definitely be involved
 if he ever appeared to have done so.
 Everyone assumes that he changed his mind
 and that that must have been what happened.
 His attorney said that his nine months in prison
 had brought him to despair
 and attempts to revive him had failed.
 And as we all know, John was a character and a half
 with a life full of antics.
 I think that the first time we talked about him
 on this podcast was when he was being sought in connection.
 Of course, he was famous, right?
 Because of McAfee and McAfee systems and McVAV.
 I didn't realize he had some connection to zone alarm
 which was a little horrifying for me.
 - Yeah, well, back in the day,
 I think he was quite a bit more respectable.
 You know, he made 100 million selling McAfee to Intel.
 - Yeah.
 - So he did quite well, but he, as far as we know,
 he squandered almost all of it in kind of oddball.
 - Well, and things went weird too.
 I think the first time we talked about him
 was when he was being sought in connection
 with the murder of his neighbor,
 a guy by the name of Gregory Fall, F-A-L-L.
 - In Belize, in Belize.
 - Yes, he was his next door neighbor in Belize.
 This neighbor had been found dead,
 shot in the back of his head with a nine millimeter.
 And prior to that, Gregory had previously confronted John
 after one of John's quite aggressive dogs
 had bitten someone in the area.
 And the dogs were apparently known to get loose
 and run in wild impacts, terrifying the community.
 So, you know, he was a source, McAfee was,
 of adventure and controversy.
 - Adventure is a good word for it, yeah.
 - In his earlier years, he had worked at NASA, Xerox,
 and Lockheed Martin, before launching
 the world's first commercial antivirus software in '87.
 And in fact, he and I interacted just once by phone.
 - Well, that's what I was curious if you had met him, yeah.
 - It was before his launch of McAfee AV.
 After I had written a series of three columns
 in Infoworld, which he was reading,
 which imagined with as much detail and accuracy
 as I could, exactly how a theoretical software virus
 would behave. - Interesting.
 - And I don't recall now how clear I made it
 that this was conjecture, but a quite animated John McAfee,
 who was unknown by the PC industry at the time,
 phoned my office, wanting to compare notes and virus samples.
 He was sure that an amaze to discover
 that I had viruses, clearly,
 because I had exactly described the behavior
 of the viruses he had.
 And he was very disappointed to learn,
 and actually it took me some time to convince him
 and talk him down, and I'm unsure that I ever really did.
 I think he just didn't really believe
 that my three column series about software viruses
 was entirely written from my imagination
 as a software developer, not as a virus discoverer.
 Anyway, I said, "Sorry, John."
 I was like, "Really, really, I don't have any."
 If I was a virus, this is how I would behave.
 And he's like, "Really?"
 Oh, well, I thought we could,
 "I'd show you mine if you showed me yours."
 So anyway, I saw some stories about him
 fairly aggressively calling people to get information
 or copies of viruses.
 He was working a Lockheed when he got a copy of the brain
 in the late '80s and started writing McAfee.
 But I think he wanted to write an antivirus,
 but he needed to understand what it was he was blocking
 when he was preventing.
 Yeah, did a good job, it worked, right?
 It's funny you mentioned that, Leo, because I was thinking
 the same thing this morning, like, okay,
 we know how they work now.
 So would it have been behavior-based?
 It's hard to imagine it would have been like signature-based
 'cause what they're like.
 There weren't any.
 There were four or something, yeah.
 Right, exactly, exactly.
 So crazy.
 He probably was trying to come up with heuristics.
 So that you could watch for a certain kind of behavior.
 That's the ideal way to do it.
 Signature is plus heuristics, but I don't know.
 Yeah.
 And we didn't have an internet back then.
 So they had to live, they had to jump from floppy.
 You had to send them a floppy.
 Yeah, yeah.
 Hey, John, I got one, it's on a floppy here.
 We didn't have USB, we didn't have thumb drives.
 All we had, the only thing that was transportable
 was diskettes.
 And so the viruses, such as they were,
 had to be very tiny.
 I think I remember that some of them lived in track zero
 because there was still,
 I think there was still cylinder alignment.
 So I think there was space on track zero
 after the boot sector.
 And so you'd have, there were, I remember,
 boot sector viruses.
 I mean, they had to be really, really small.
 So what you do is you put on the boot sector of a floppy.
 If somebody booted that floppy,
 attempted to boot from that floppy,
 it would infect their system.
 This is pre and hard drives.
 Or do they have hard drives?
 Okay.
 Jump to the hard drives.
 If they had a hard drive,
 or it would go into RAM and then move on
 to any other diskettes that they then stuck in.
 That's right, yeah.
 Now, tell the truth.
 Did you expect to hear Steve Gibson's memories
 of John McAfee on the best of episode?
 Maybe you did, maybe you did.
 On we go with our best of holiday episode of security now.
 This is one very important.
 I took it seriously.
 In fact, as Steve is telling T-Mobile customers
 what to do, I was doing it.
 Watch.
 The news from T-Mobile is all bad.
 Last week, T-Mobile confirmed their latest data breach,
 making it the fifth data breach in four years.
 You know, they're gonna have to start explaining to someone
 like what their problem is.
 There were two previous attacks in 2020, you know,
 last year, one in 2019 and the first in 2018.
 But this most recent breach is the largest by far.
 And the numbers of affected customers keep growing.
 They like, as they keep digging into this,
 like, whoa, what happened?
 You know, first it was like, wait, we got breached?
 Who says?
 You know, they didn't know, literally,
 until someone started selling the content on the dark web.
 The most recent update reveals that the cyber attack
 exposed over 54 million individuals' data.
 Last weekend, a threat actor began selling
 the personal information, claiming it was 100 million
 T-Mobile customers on a hacking forum for,
 he was asking six Bitcoin, which is about 280K right now.
 'Cause as you commented recently,
 Leo, Bitcoin is coming back, I think it was on Sunday.
 It's coming back, it's creeping back up again, and I'm moaning
 about the 50 that I just said, eh, don't think about it, Steve.
 Don't think about it, that's not it.
 So this is the text I got from T-Mobile,
 unauthorized access to some of your personal data.
 We have no evidence, of course, there are morons,
 but we have no evidence that your debit credit card
 information was compromised.
 But we're gonna give you just in case three years
 of credit monitoring.
 - Free. - Okay.
 - Thanks. - Yeah.
 - Okay, so we'll talk about what users should do
 in a second, or hopefully all of our listeners have.
 So this hacker claimed that the stolen database contains
 the data for approximately 100 million T-Mobile customers.
 Now, here's the bad part.
 This is not one of those, well, yeah,
 they got the hashed password. - Oh no.
 - The exposed data can include customers,
 I-M-S-I-I-M-E-I. - Oh, S-I, what's the M-S-I?
 - I know I am. - That's one of the other things.
 - Okay. - You know, they're big crypto,
 you know, like strings of numbers,
 but you don't want anybody to have them,
 'cause they can get up to mischief,
 like clone your sims and things.
 Phone numbers, customer names, security pins,
 social security numbers, driver's license numbers,
 and date of birth, and of course names, right?
 So in other words, the keys to the identity theft kingdom,
 the database was said to have been stolen
 approximately three weeks ago,
 apparently when T-Mobile was on vacation,
 and contains customer data dating back as far as 2004.
 In an interview with the hacker,
 which Lawrence Abrams of bleeping computer,
 he's the bleeping computer's founder,
 Lawrence Abrams had this interview,
 reported that the hacker said,
 their entire IMEI history database
 going back to 2004 was stolen, you know?
 So that's all of the, basically the serial numbers
 of all the T-Mobile phones
 that they've had accounts for since '04, okay?
 And that was what, a year before the podcast,
 so 18 years of data that's been stolen.
 After the data first went up for sale,
 T-Mobile later confirmed,
 oh, some of our servers have been hacked.
 What do you know?
 And began investigating what customer data
 had been exposed last Tuesday on August 17th.
 T-Mobile first said that the personal information
 of 48.6 million individuals
 was exposed during the attack.
 They later updated that to include
 an additional 6 million customers,
 oh, 6 million more, or prospective customers
 who are also affected by the attack.
 You don't even have to have like, you know,
 signed on a dotted line.
 No, you just open a conversation with T-Mobile
 and you're in your history.
 So T-Mobile also confirmed that the attackers
 stole their customers' IMSI and IMEI numbers.
 That was confirmed.
 Okay, so here's a breakdown.
 13.1 million current T-Mobile post-paid customer accounts
 as opposed to, you know, distinct from prepaid.
 So 13.1 million current T-Mobile post-paid customer accounts
 that included first and last names,
 date of birth, social security number,
 and driver's license/ID information, bad.
 Bad T-Mobile, bad.
 40 million former or prospective T-Mobile customers,
 including first and last names,
 date of birth, social security number,
 and driver's license/ID information.
 Okay, so a total of 53.1 with all of that,
 basically, game over.
 667,000 accounts of former T-Mobile customers exposing
 customer names, phone numbers, addresses,
 and dates of birth were compromised.
 850,000 active T-Mobile prepaid customer names,
 phone numbers, and account pins were exposed.
 So even if you're prepaid, you're still host.
 And finally, 52,000 names related to current Metro
 by T-Mobile accounts may have been included.
 So yeah, count yourself in.
 Okay, so identity theft is one of those things
 that can really screw up one's life.
 You need to prove that it wasn't you
 who applied for and received credit under your name
 when the other person provided, the other person,
 you're proving some other mysterious,
 we don't know who, other person,
 provided all of the personal information
 that only you are presumed to have.
 So such credence immediately run up massive charges
 under your name using and destroying your credit.
 There are tons of horror stories
 about the mess this has caused for people.
 I mean, it's ruined lives.
 And what's needed to apply for credit in someone else's name,
 exactly the data that has just been exposed
 for tens of millions of T-Mobile customers,
 because guess what?
 That's what you provided to get credit from T-Mobile.
 They said, oh yeah, this is what we know about people
 that convinced us to give them credit.
 Let's have it all sold on the dark web.
 (laughs)
 Okay, so this is why the absolutely number one best advice
 I have, the advice I give to anyone and everyone
 is to simply run with permanent locks on your accounts
 at all three of the credit reporting bureaus.
 Experian, TransUnion, and Equifax.
 I've had all three locked for me
 since I first talked about this years ago
 during one of these identity theft events.
 This is easily done for someone who is not routinely
 applying for credit.
 You know, Leo, those of us who have thinning hair.
 It's easier for us, yeah.
 It's easier for us.
 If you're getting credit cards, you have to unfreeze.
 If you're getting a car, you have to unfreeze.
 Yeah, because you have to let those creditors check
 your credit.
 And by the way, you have to give them your social security
 number, your driver's like, all of this stuff,
 this is why T-Mobile has it, 'cause they run credit checks
 before you can get a prepaid phone or a post-paid phone.
 And unfortunately, they don't wipe it, obviously.
 They just won't want to be--
 So you just keep it, why not?
 That's right.
 And we certainly wouldn't want to secure it or anything.
 Cloud storage is so cheap, maybe they'll be useful.
 OK, the good news is, it has recently become easier
 for those who do need to occasionally unfreeze
 their credit worthiness.
 More importantly, free, thanks to federal interventions,
 used to be expensive.
 A couple of years ago, I realized that I was losing money
 by not using an Amazon branded credit card
 for my many purchases through Amazon
 since they were providing a couple of points of discount
 for purchases made through their own card.
 Why would I not take advantage of that?
 So I had the occasion to need to lift the locks on my credit.
 What I discovered was that all three of the agencies now
 offer a convenient, free, 10-day unlock
 with automatic relock.
 So I told them all to start the 10-day counter.
 I applied for the Amazon card, qualified through whichever one
 of the three agencies, Amazon, queried,
 and then all of them were automatically relocked.
 So it makes it so practical, you know,
 with accounts locked this way, no would-be creditor
 is able to query for my credit.
 And thus, no creditor would allow a thief
 to open a credit account under my name.
 So I'll just say it again.
 If you have not done it, if you are not continually needing,
 for some reason, to have creditors accessing your credit
 with those big three firms, then why not lock those agencies
 down?
 It's trivial to do, and it buys a lot of peace of mind.
 Doing it right now.
 And it's free now, as we said, to freeze in unfreeze, yeah.
 So there's a fraud alert, and there's a credit freeze.
 The credit freezes what you want.
 Fraud alert, you have to have fraud for--
 There's a freeze, and there's a lock.
 Unfortunately, the jargon can be confusing.
 The freeze is temporary, the lock is permanent.
 So the lock is what you want.
 So I'm glad you brought it up, because you do need to read
 through that and look at what it is that they're doing.
 But mine are just permanently locked.
 And the other cool thing is, just looking at it yesterday,
 I'd forgotten that there are now iOS apps that allow you,
 after verifying you are who you are,
 to use the app to unlock your credit on a transient temporary
 basis.
 So it really becomes quite a practical thing to do.
 Again, everybody, in my opinion, unless you're
 newlyweds buying all kinds of stuff, and cars, and homes,
 and things, just lock that stuff down.
 You want to protect your credit and not have it destroyed
 by somebody.
 I mean, look at all this mess that T-Mobile is just
 creative for people.
 Oh, we're going to give you a three, three year--
 Oh, here from McAfee, oh, people, geez.
 Oh, great.
 In the dog house, this week is proton mail.
 And I know a lot of our listeners are proton mail users.
 I know my Twitter feed is full of people
 saying, hey, talk about proton mail, Steve.
 Tell us how wonderful it is.
 And I'm using it.
 I think it's great.
 So OK, this--
 You know what I've said to everybody,
 and I'm vindicated now, email is
 inherently insecure period.
 Yes, don't catch yourself.
 What's cool is they got caught--
 and I've got it in the show notes--
 changing their website.
 So they boast on their website, secure email
 based in Switzerland.
 But that statement's meaning was changed last week.
 I just scroll down through their home page
 at protonmail.com.
 And oh, boy, it looks wonderful.
 The Hacker News--
 You made fun of it.
 When it came out, because you mentioned the Swiss server
 in the mountain.
 Yes.
 Yeah.
 So the Hacker News writes that, quote, on its website,
 proton mail advertises that, quote,
 no personal information is required
 to create your secure email account.
 By default, we do not keep any IP logs which
 can be linked to your anonymous email account.
 Your privacy comes first, unquote from them,
 unquote from the Hacker News.
 But when I just went to that page
 and searched for bits of that assertion, that statement,
 it had apparently been removed.
 I wonder why.
 Could it perhaps be?
 Because it was recently discovered
 that protonmail had provided location information
 to Swiss authorities which directly
 led to the arrest of one or more of the users of their supposedly
 Swiss identity protecting service.
 Yeah.
 That might have been a factor.
 The Hacker News captured a before screenshot
 of proton mail's homepage.
 Right at the top, it lists its main feature categories
 as Swiss privacy, end-to-end encryption,
 and anonymous email.
 But it doesn't say that today.
 Their homepage has been changed.
 Today, the top line still begins with Swiss privacy
 and end-to-end encryption.
 But now, the third item is your data, your rules,
 where it previously said anonymous email.
 Now, I give them some serious props for fessing up
 and apparently thinking, OK, we really
 can't make that anonymous email claim anymore, can we?
 That had to hurt.
 Because I know these guys' heart is in the right place.
 I feel bad for the French climate activist
 who believed them and is now in jail.
 Yep.
 Protonmail acknowledged that it had received a, quote,
 "legally binding order from the Swiss Federal Department
 of Justice," unquote, related to a collective called Youth
 for Climate, which it was, again, quote,
 "obligated to comply with," unquote,
 compelling it to hand over the IP address
 and all information it had related to the type of device
 used by the group to access the protonmail account.
 That's probably not the nature of the protection
 that those users of protonmail believed they were receiving
 after reading protonmail's original quite powerful
 and compelling privacy expounding home page, which,
 as I've noted, no longer exists.
 So despite its no IP logging claims,
 the company acknowledged that while it's illegal for the company
 to comply with requests from non-Swiss law enforcement
 authorities, it will be required to do so if Swiss agencies agree
 to assist foreign services such as Europol
 to in-in Europol's investigations.
 And part of a lengthy response posted on Reddit.
 The company said, quote, "There was no possibility
 to appeal or fight this particular request
 because an act contrary to Swiss law did in fact take place."
 And this was also the final determination
 of the Federal Department of Justice, which
 does a legal review of the case, unquote.
 Put simply, protonmail will not only
 have to comply with Swiss government orders,
 it will be forced to hand over relevant data
 when individuals use the service to engage in activities
 that are deemed illegal in the country.
 This includes monitoring its users IP addresses.
 Protonmail's founder and CEO Andy Yen
 tweeted, quote, "Proton must comply with Swiss law.
 As soon as a crime is committed, privacy protections
 can be suspended.
 And we're required by Swiss law to answer requests
 from Swiss authorities."
 It's deplorable.
 This is his tweet.
 It's deplorable that legal tools for serious crimes
 are being used in this way.
 But by law, we must comply with Swiss criminal investigations.
 This is obviously not done by default,
 but only if legally forced.
 I have to say, that seems to me disingenuous
 because they were saying, we don't log IP addresses.
 We don't preserve that information.
 If they had received a warrant for information
 they didn't have, they wouldn't have to hand it over.
 So they were misrepresenting what they were doing.
 Well, unless the warrants said--
 Start logging.
 Yeah.
 Yes, exactly.
 Now, at that point, Swiss law requires
 they notify the subject.
 So that's, again, another question mark.
 At that point, they're supposed to tell the subject,
 we are now monitoring your logging.
 Did they do that?
 This is never--
 And this is independent of whether they're encrypting
 email or not.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah.
 Of course they're encrypting it.
 Absolutely end-to-end.
 We believe that.
 And if the other person is going to do it with you.
 I mean, you can't send an encrypted email
 across the public internet.
 You can only send a link saying there's
 an encrypted file for you or you can come unencrypted,
 something like that.
 Sure.
 Because Gmail doesn't know how proton mail works.
 Gmail wouldn't know what to do with it.
 What I'm wondering--
 because, I mean, they're loudly talking about this service.
 The entire reason people use proton mail
 is to get the protection that they use to claim anonymous email.
 So it does seem to me like maybe their technology's
 not working right, but at their hearts in the right place.
 Their business is to offer this to the degree they
 can absolute privacy.
 But they're certainly correct in explaining
 that if they have the ability to comply with such requests,
 they must by law do so.
 Yeah, same with apples, same with everybody else.
 Yes, exactly where I'm going with this, Leo.
 What I wonder is whether it wouldn't
 be possible for them to design a system where it's just
 not possible for them to comply no matter how much they might
 be forced to.
 And then, for example, to the point you just made,
 we've conjectured here that one possible motivation for apples
 quite unpopular plan to compare photo signatures
 against a known photo signature database before uploading
 new photos to iCloud might actually
 be so that they could further lock down iCloud
 as they have their other end-to-end encrypted systems.
 In other words, make it impossible for them
 to comply to such a request.
 And where there's a will, there's a way.
 So proton mail users who are concerned
 about the visibility of their IP addresses,
 I think, should also take the trouble
 to route their access through the Tor network
 to obtain additional anonymity.
 Since email is not real-time communications anyway,
 routing email through Tor, which adds significant communications
 latency on its own because you've
 got to bounce through all these nodes
 and have onion wrappers unwrapped,
 to me that makes a lot of sense.
 But presumably, that isn't something
 that these guys thought they had to do
 because they were being told that their IP address was not
 being logged, we don't know the details of whether they were
 told they forced to start logging,
 or whether maybe they actually were logging and deleting them,
 quietly keeping a log but never intending to publish it.
 Or maybe they understood that they did have an obligation
 to comply with Swiss law.
 And we're actually logging.
 We don't know.
 Wow, this has been quite a year, isn't it?
 Hasn't it?
 I hope things are better on the one hand next year.
 On the other hand, we have so much fun on security now
 talking about how bad things are.
 I don't want that to end either.
 Steve is committed.
 He's going to do a whole other year of security now.
 In fact, several years still to come.
 I think, honestly, this is one of those shows
 you just have to listen to every week.
 And I thank all of you who do.
 I know some of you are listening thanks to your company
 buying a membership in Club Twit.
 That makes me even happier.
 Club Twit's been a great success this year.
 If you're not already a member, add free versions
 of all the shows, access to our Discord server, which
 is so great, round the clock.
 And of course, the Twit+ feed, including
 our untitled Linux show, Stacey Higabotham's book club,
 many special guests-- actually, Mike Elgin and Amir Elgin
 coming up thanks to our new community manager, Aunt Pruitt.
 He's put together a number of special events
 for us in the month of January.
 Mike and Amir, I think Jeff Jarvis joins us in January, too.
 Actually, we're getting booked up.
 All of those exclusive for Club Twit members
 to find out more or to join for your company.
 We love the corporate memberships.
 Just go to twit.tv/clubtwit to find out more.
 Thanks to all of you who listen, all of you who chat with us
 and Discord with us.
 This is just a great show.
 But really, I guess, number one, I got to thank Steve Gibson.
 He works very hard to put this show together every week.
 And he is the master.
 The master, he's back.
 Next Tuesday, January 4, a brand new security now.
 Do you think there'll be any security flaws to talk about?
 I wonder.
 We'll see you then.
 Bye-bye.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
