 Netcast you love from people you trust this is Twitter bandwidth for security now is provided by AOL radio at AOL.com slash podcasting
 This is security now is Steve Gibson episode 80 for February 22nd 2007 your questions Steve's answers numbers 16
 Security now is brought to you by a starrow makers of the a starrow security gateway on the web at
 www.ast aro calm
 It's kind of a landmark security now. I'm Leo report Steve Gibson is joining us from his fortress of security in beautiful Irvine, California
 Hello, Steve. Hello. Leo great to be back with you also joining us the podcast dog
 Can you hear him?
 Why is he always starts barking right when the show begins?
 A little terrier across the street from me and he just we'll probably have little we'll probably have listeners starting to count the barks
 I heard 319 barks last. Oh, are you kidding? It'll be a Wikipedia article how many barks there were in this week's to it
 So
 We're gonna do because it's episode 80. It's a mod for episode
 We're going to do our questions and answers the 16th of these but before we do that
 I think we want to cover some stuff from previous episodes got a cool bunch of interesting Arata first thing is the
 Shortly after we closed down the recording last week of the really really well received episode on
 Backtracking email spoofing and in fact, we've got a bunch of Q&A issues of really great questions that people had about some of that
 Because there was a huge amount of interest in that anyway shortly after we we stopped recording
 I was puttering around I don't remember exactly why but I looked at the headers of some of my email and I
 realized with one of those those classic tone like
 Events that the header that I had been always referring to as received by was just received colon
 Right, and I was confused but with something else and it's like oh my god
 Talking about I will ever not not a single person. I thought I was just gonna be held up a tardin
 Tardin feathered, but no one mentioned that everyone was was happy to have the content
 So we weren't holding you to that literal words
 It was the it's the thing in the header that says what was received by as well exactly
 But as an assembly language programmer Leo, I know I got to count my
 Out of eyes you can't you can't leave anything out
 Yeah, cuz yeah
 Well, it was funny because I should have said something because as we were doing the episode
 I was looking at my headers. I knew exactly what this I could have said. I didn't know that it mattered to you
 Nobody was confused. I was made self-conscious of it
 So I immediately made a note in the errata for this week to confess my mistake. There is no buy
 It's just received received. Yep
 Also, I subscribe to the sans
 Security Institute newsletter, and I thought it was interesting that there is a new malicious JavaScript
 Exploit which can alter DNS settings on routers with default passwords and this basically
 relates to my continual drum beating about scripting is bad scripting is bad
 I mean wonderful and convenient and useful as it is as I've said over and over
 I'm nothing's gonna fatigue me from saying this is that you are
 Accepting code from a remote server when your browser has scripting enabled
 So I want I want to do a couple comments to flesh the out this particular
 Example of of a new problem
 Sans writes that malicious JavaScript placed on websites could be used to change DNS settings on home routers
 That are still using default passwords once the change has been made the next time the router is rebooted
 The user would be redirected to spoofed possibly malicious websites
 Research indicates that about half of router owners have not changed the password from the default
 Now this is really interesting because for example, I have not changed I confess what my password from the default Gibson
 I have a shocked because I'm all closed to the outside
 I deliberately said, you know block when requests and and and kill off any WAN side
 Administration so there's no way anyone can get at my router from the outside
 But if I were not surfing with scripting disabled as of course, I am
 What happens is you the this new exploit which is actually very clever the script that runs in your browser
 Goes out and tries to find your your local router
 Then logs into it all behind your back and without you knowing this is going on and
 Modifies its settings
 So it's you know, it's it's very clever
 It's like a hack from the outside
 Which you invited in because you've got scripting running on your browser a couple of things
 I would say there though first of all this was a hack created by Symantec
 It was a proof of concept hack. So I don't think it's in the wild. Well
 Right, it stands has two editors who who who commented that I thought and I thought that their comments were interesting too
 The the first one says this is a clever attack exploiting the weak default configuration of most consumer home network products
 Those consumer products tend to walk the user through a wide open setup
 Right and then at the end they say if you want to turn security on click here
 But it might ruin performance or totally screw up your network and quote and we don't have to support it
 It's what they exactly where we really don't want you to exactly
 It says the Wi-Fi alliance has started an effort called Wi-Fi protected setup
 Right to make it easier for default configuration of Wi-Fi networks to be secure
 The same thing should happen for the rest of the consumer of consumer network products
 Then the second editor appends to this
 Although this attack focuses on consumers illustrates a major trend
 I'm seeing he says in the cases I'm investigating
 browser scripts are a scourge with implications beyond the browsers in which they run
 recent browser script attacks that I've investigated he says as well as the attack described in this article
 Involve a browser requesting content from a website where the attacker is posted a malicious script
 The website shoots the script back in a web response that causes the browser to take some action on the infrastructure on
 Which the browsing machine resides that that is to say we you know inside of your network
 He says the browser is used in effect as a remote control sentinel
 Inside the organization's firewall to manipulate its infrastructure such as routers internal applications, etc
 Controlled via browser scripts. We are seeing this in some advanced attacks today
 But watch for this vector to increase massively in the next year or so
 To defend against it. You may want to disable browser script support in your browsers associated with critical components of your network
 Or enable them only for important web servers that you've added to your trusted zone
 So well, I
 I'm not a big fan of this here because I have to say first of all the scripting the Java scripting exploits
 We've seen are of this nature. They're not putting a Trojan horse in your system. They're they're modifying your router and things like that
 right and
 Second of second of all. I mean turn off scripting and say goodbye to the net almost every site including our site uses Java script
 Yeah, it's I mean I use I've used I tried for a long time. I use the Firefox. No script extension
 And I still do but it causes reliability issues and it's a big pain in the butt and you end up approving it on most sites anyway
 Yeah, I mean Leo the problem is that scripting is not safe
 I mean, it's just not yet. It's so useful that it's difficult to fly without it
 I guess my question is how not safe. I mean JavaScript is is pretty sandboxed. It's not
 It can't do you can't erase it at a file on your hard drive. Let's say. Oh sure can I mean not well not by itself
 But JavaScript for example on IE is able to invoke active X controls
 Which then completely empower it to break through the sandbox and do anything it wants to I would submit the problem
 There is active X not JavaScript. I I wouldn't disagree
 I mean that's a big problem. The other thing is I'm surprised to hear you haven't changed the default password
 We've been saying for a long time that there are a couple of basic things you should always do on a new router
 One of which is change the fall password turn off universal plug and play
 And turn on well, yeah, if you're on well, and and in my defense. This is not a router on my network
 It's on an ice. It's on my cable modem, which is like a backup
 Connection that I use sparingly, but that's true. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I change all my passwords right away
 And we do say that a lot
 So I guess I mean in this case there's a very clear fix that doesn't have anything to do with JavaScript
 Your point is that JavaScript's dangerous, right? Right? Right. Okay. Um,
 I was about to say moving on as Kevin always says on dignity
 I've been spending way too much time listening to him and Alex
 We talked weeks ago about what about muesliks 64 and the postings over on doom nine about
 Decrypting HD DVDs. I'm only gonna in this errata section mention that those guys have continued to go crazy
 There is an amazing thread over on the doom nine site
 I'm we will have a link to it in today's show notes if anyone's curious in in continuing to follow that they're like
 covering process keys and volume IDs and basically just really pulling HD DVD
 encryption apart and developing a broad base of understanding and all kinds of
 Additionally clever hacks for ways to decrypt HD DVD content kind of reminds me of a feeding frenzy
 It's like people are just dying to crack high-def DVDs
 Probably just because it's there. Yeah. Well, it makes them mad that that that you know, they say they came back with quote a better
 That's the problem with with any kind of copy protection. It just it just raises
 Riles up the masses they get upset and they get and they're gonna crack it. Yep
 Also, the other thing that we were swamped with this week were people asking about the about
 Basically my reaction to and wanting me to talk about the the Google white paper that they I believe it was a use nicks
 It was like just recently released in the last week essentially
 Google did a huge study on hard drive reliability
 based on the
 hundreds of thousands of hard drives that Google has in its massive Internet services and and
 Internet indexing system
 And it was really funny. I mean I was gonna talk about it from the beginning
 I made a note in the errata a few days ago
 It's like I ought to mention this because one of the most shocking things about this was that hard drive reliability is
 Much worse than even I thought remember a couple weeks ago
 I mentioned that I was surprised by a seagate specification that talked about the reliability
 Being zero point three four percent per year meaning one in three hundred drives
 It turns out that after a couple years Google is seeing more like eight percent failure per year
 Wow, but anyway, so many people wrote and said Steve, you know
 We know you're really supposed to only be talking about internet security or PC security
 But you know the the the reliability and lack of failure of our hard drives is kind of important too
 Right, you know, couldn't you talk about it?
 And I got so much email from people that and since I obviously have a lot of knowledge about this stuff through my experience
 What's been right next week? We're gonna talk about this Google paper again
 I will post a link in this week's show notes to the PDF
 So anyone who's interested can can grab it and read it beforehand or you can just put something like, you know
 Hard drive reliability into Google's own search engine and it'll find that link for you also
 Anyway, you know so many people wanted us to talk about it. I thought, okay
 I'm not gonna turn into a spin right commercial
 I'll just we'll talk about what Google found because it's it's really interesting and they did a beautiful study
 Using this large sample base of hard drives that they've got
 Well, I'm all for making it a show. I mean, I think this is this is your area of expertise. Why shouldn't we?
 I also wanted to mention that and I picked this up from your pod one of the other podcast Leo
 Where you and maybe was Amber? I'm not sure mentioned that I that Google is now gone public in other words
 You you no longer need someone else to invite you
 Because I remember that one of our Q&A is a couple a couple sessions ago
 Someone asked hey, you know, I'd like to use Google and Gmail
 But how do I get invited?
 So I wanted to just make a note that it's no longer necessary to be invited anybody can get a Google mail account and take advantage of Google mail
 And well worth it. I might um I also noted that spin that shields up crossed 48 million
 Downloads there was a big milestone for shields up. We got a party for 50 million. Yeah, that would be that's a serious number. Yeah, no kidding
 And finally I've had a bunch of people that I've never mentioned before
 Tell us that they really enjoyed the the peter hamilton book that that I there was pandera star and then there was
 Um, well the one you the one you recommended to me was falling fallen dragon
 Pandora star and jus unleashed is this unleashed exactly and in fact several people said they liked pandera star so much
 They were now waiting for
 Judas unleashed to come out and paperback. I bought the hardcover
 I I did too. I couldn't wait
 The the the thing I wanted to mention was I just finished my third reading of fallen dragon
 You know, I have to say having now read uh pandera star and uh halfway through juda shut judas unleashed
 And uh fallen dragons is the best of the three it is
 Yes
 So I wanted to tell our listeners that if they liked if they liked pandera star
 I mean, I I I read it already twice
 I had for it had been long enough now that I'd sort of forgotten the details and I just really enjoyed reading it again
 So I I will recommend fallen dragon by peter f hamilton as it's the great. I you know
 It's not one of those things that you want to hurry through all of his stuff is sort of literary in nation so or in in nature
 sort of sort of uh
 Dickensian, I guess you would say it is you know with lots of character development, but just a really good. It's so great
 I mean, it's it's it's a fully full fledged universe
 If you like sci-fi
 I had never heard of peter hamilton till you told me about him and I remember and I was in toronto and I bought fallen dragon that day
 And then I got it in the mail from you the next day
 Right
 But you know it didn't go to waste I led it to a friend who's a sci-fi fan who loved it
 We're turning people on peter hamilton right and left and then I did just I mean the middle of a judas shot judas unleashed
 But you know, it's funny because you'll get pandera star and that in itself is 900 pages
 And it's a weed. Yeah, and you figure well. Hey, at least it's gonna end it doesn't end
 At the end of the 900 pages
 You've got one character going over a waterfall. You've got the aliens approach and and and for more
 Rejudice, it's like it's like it is a it is a well in fact his bigger volume. That's not even the biggest one the
 Uh, I'm blanking on the name the it's his famous
 Uh, I have a really three volume hardback that became that became six
 Paperbacks, oh my the night the night's dawn trilogy is the name of it. Do you recommend that?
 Um if it weren't so darn long. I mean, it's really interesting some fantastic sci-fi ideas real
 I mean neat stuff, but boy does it go on and on and on so
 So we'll bring it so a desert island the next time for people who have time
 I mean, it's you know like for non tv watchers who really enjoy reading
 I don't think there's anything better than then then peter hamilton agree. I agree
 Hey, you said we're not gonna do an ad for spin right but yes, we are
 Let's do an ad for spin right everybody's favorite hard drive maintenance utility and uh in a dis recovery
 And if you're one of those poor people one of those eight percent a year
 That really brings it home doesn't it you need it something it it really does
 Um, it is uh steve's bread and butter
 We that isn't really an ad because we just do it because we love it
 But I do want to make sure people know about it. You can read the testimonials at spin right dot info
 S-p-i-n-r-i-t-e dot info or biocopy as you as everyone should at grc.com
 I did and while I was browsing through um these
 Questions in order to pull 12 together which we're about to start on I ran across a really neat one
 That where the guy used the web the security now web page to send his testimonial to me rather than sending email to you know
 Sales or support at grc.com
 And I just read the first line. He just said spin right saves a business
 So I got a kick out of that and I'll I'll share I'll share that with our listeners at some future time
 Yeah, or just go to spin right dot info. Let's get to our questions. We've got 12 goodness as usual. It's a
 Episode 80 divisible by four. So that means it's time to read a question
 For steve and you said that uh our our episode on spam
 Stimulated some email and some questions and you're you're absolutely right. We got we got quite a few
 Um, let's start with the first one from chris mackemy of taft california
 He says in episode 79 you talked about spoofing email headers. I wanted to know
 How do I look at or find the headers in the email? I get
 No, it's a great question from a from a practical standpoint on i'm a udora user and
 It's funny because the button is labeled bla bla bla on udora as in yeah
 Yeah, yeah, you know business stuff you really don't need to see
 But you know, so you click the bla bla bla button on udora and it will show them to you
 But of course
 Probably the majority of people are using outlook or outlook express
 And so I did a little I just fired up one of my xp machines where you know you get outlook whether you want it or not
 Thank you microsoft
 And uh, you if you right click in the in the in the upper pane
 Where it shows you your list of email and go to the bottom of the pop-up menu the context menu that comes up
 There's a there's a properties item under properties
 You can choose the details tab and what it shows you are the headers and there's also a button there that that says um
 Uh message source and if you click that it opens another window with the entire source of the message
 Although probably just looking at the headers is enough
 But so right click on the item go to properties and then go to details and that's where you'll find your headers in outlook express
 Most I would I would say all email clients
 Uh without knowing that it's all but it's probably all do give users some way to find your headers
 You might check under their help or just browse through, you know, like the the edit menu or the messages menu or whatever menu
 They've got to see if there's something about, you know, show all headers or show head or something like that
 It's probably discoverable by anyone who who wants to track that down. Oh, yeah, it's always there somewhere. Absolutely
 Joe McDaniel of Tallahassee, Florida
 Go Seminoles
 Did you add that or did Joe say oh he did
 Right. I was like they love their football in Tallahassee. I don't know who I don't know who's in Florida
 I don't even know what sport that is
 Uh, well, I'm probably this time of year. It's basketball. Anyway, he says I was looking at your password page
 That's grc.com/passwords or password or password.html or any variety of thereof
 Yeah, you got this nailed and a question occurred to me. I use it all the time
 That's why Steve if a strong hashing algorithm is being used to hash the user's input down to a cryptographic key
 Okay, I'm gonna have you explain that but is there any advantage or disadvantage to using a password that contains the full printable
 ASCII character set versus one that only contains hex characters in other words
 Is a password containing the full ASCII set more robust
 Than a password containing only the hex set
 You must know dollar signs and esterisks and all the other stuff. Right. This is this is a great question
 Because it gives people a way to think about
 It's one of the ways I have always approached problems
 So first of all to to back up a little bit. He's talking about how on grc's passwords page
 You get this, you know, many different forms of strings. I have like a full ASCII characters
 I have one that's zero through nines a through z's
 Um, and then there's one which is only hex and so presumably maybe things are able to digest the hex strings more easily
 Um or with less confusion. He's wondering would there be a reason to use the the more complex fuller
 character set strings
 The way I often solve problems is I what when I like trying to get my handle on
 The answer to that sign of that sort of question is I'll I'll take it to one extreme or another
 And so for example
 The idea being that if you if you're using hex characters
 Then you're oh you only have four bits of data for every character you're using because you've got zero through nine and a through f
 A total of 16 characters in the alphabet and so you've got four bits of data per character
 Well, if you use full ASCII, you've got seven bits for printable ASCII
 So you've got many more bits per character that that you're then stringing together
 Well
 So going to hex means fewer bits per character
 Well, let's take that further and say that we only used zero and one characters
 That is essentially one bit per character
 And we had passwords that are 64 characters long
 Well, that means that we've all we've essentially reduced the the space of possible passwords
 To two to the 64th that which are then being hashed down to the cryptographic key
 So by taking it to an extreme you can see that that having a smaller alphabet
 Does limit the number of possible
 Passwords that you could be using and therefore you could argue that it's less secure because if somebody was going to brute force it
 They they'd they'd have a smaller world from which they were trying to brute force your password
 And somebody might for example glance at your password in the clear and notice that's all ones and zeros ago
 That's easier for me to crack than something that looks like your typewriter broke
 Which is you know, what what what what what the full character set looks like?
 So the answer is yes having and using the full ASCII
 Character set that gives you seven bits of randomness per character. So it's seven times 64
 That's going to end up giving you more security than using more limited character set passwords
 I guess
 The question is does it make a difference? I mean two of the 64th is still quite a few
 Yeah, it doesn't really matter
 Okay, great. Thanks a lot
 I mean, it's one thing to say binary, but but I mean it's not like your your your only two choices. You do have a few more choices
 That's absolutely true. He also says it's using if it's doing hashing. Isn't that
 Uh even processing it more and making it completely random and you can't do a brute force on a hash, can you?
 Well, no, in fact what's happening is we're taking the large, you know, for example, just a seed, right?
 Well, wpa for example, which is what most people are using these these half these passwords for
 Wpa takes what you give it and hashes it down to a 256 bit key
 So you want to give it more bits than it's going to be hash down to rather than fewer bits
 So if you did give it 64 characters of four bits, well now you've you've only you're only giving it
 256 bits which are being hashed to 256
 So basically that would be creating a mapping there could be some overlap between the input and output
 So it's it's better just to give the hashing algorithm as rich a source of entropy as you can now that makes sense
 Brian the hammer he probably prefers to hammer of san diego has his thinking cap on he says
 I just listened to the spoof spam email mess episode last episode
 Where you discussed how fake received headers are used to try and mask the true entity of the male's origin
 You describe how this sort of spoofing doesn't hold up under close scrutiny due to the fact that
 Each SMTP server will use the ip address of the server. It receives a message from
 however, what if a spam bot?
 Were to initially add two received headers to the outgoing message the first header would make it look like the message originated from grc.com
 The second header would make it look like grc.com. I pass it on to some other
 SMTP server the second spoofed header would of course include the actual ip address of the grc.com
 smtp server wouldn't this make it almost impossible to tell that the message did not originate from grc.com in other words spoof
 The received twice
 Yep, that in fact many many people to the great credit of our listeners many people
 And that's why i've included several questions that relate to this in in today's q&a
 Really thought this through and came up with some clever wait a minute
 How about this sort of ideas and and this is a perfect example
 I was saying that you know that the that a single header would be spoofed. So they said hey, what if you spoofed two
 You know because then if someone was was was smart enough to look at the first one and go well
 That might not be right. They might not be smart enough to look at the second one
 So so the answer here would be to to scrutinize the chain
 Remember that we were talking about how email moves from SMTP server to SMTP server
 And basically the received headers. I'm not calling them received by anymore. The received headers would show you
 A chain which at some point is probably broken and it's the break in the chain
 That would tell you wait a minute. Here's where this thing really came from
 So
 So he's right that adding a second spoofed header or more
 Could make the task of figuring out where it came from more difficult
 But if a discontinuity were found
 In this chain of received headers that would be a key that something wasn't right somewhere
 So you'd still know something was wrong probably yes, but that's the point is that this is to fool people who aren't really
 That's savvy or exactly and I mean it would be really good if people or servers
 Really scrutinized the whole chain and said wait a minute. This is fishy. Yeah, exactly
 Tom in courtland New York raised his antenna and then asked I have a question about Wi-Fi recently
 I took my university laptop home instead of a presentation. I started the system
 Instead of a presentation oh ahead of it. I'm sorry. I was misreading it
 It's head of a presentation period. I started the system period the laptop is wireless
 It automatically connected to an open hot spot in my building titled. Oh, this is the free public Wi-Fi question
 I like this one. I am certain he got he got a
 Something a hotspot saying free public Wi-Fi. I'm certain there's no free public Wi-Fi and recognize this to be likely a scam hotspot
 But I noticed it quickly I shut the system down immediately
 Even though I shut it down so quickly and there's not any personal data on the machine am I at any risk
 Is it likely the hotspot was even able to do anything nefarious considering the quick shutdown?
 Do you know the answer to this Steve because I do
 Go for it. This is actually not a scam
 When I first got this question on the radio. I said but you probably planning on saying which is it probably is a scam because there's no free public Wi-Fi
 Yep, um, it's a it's actually a bug in windows
 Did you know this no
 Yeah, it has to do with
 And I've also seen that so I was wondering in that any I've seen it coincidence planes
 Uh-huh because if you've ever logged into a
 An access point called free public Wi-Fi it has something to do with infrastructure
 Wi-Fi, I don't know the exact details and I'll find right where you go
 I know where you're going machine to machine instead of machine to a access point
 And this is actually in a way spreading like a virus because one guy apparently did it, right?
 And then other people saw it and joined it. There's nothing there
 You can't get any internet access from it. So they forgot it, but it persists
 It's in your system. It's like crept into your registry somewhere
 Shows up on other systems and it is now spread across the land
 And it's there quite a few places where you will get online and see something called free public Wi-Fi
 It is a windows machine in infrastructure mode that at one point logged on to another windows machine in
 infrastructure mode with free public Wi-Fi
 Uh as one of the hot spots that it'd been to
 It's a I'll find the I'll find the article because I did some research when this person asked me the question on the radio
 I answered it as you i'm sure we're going to answer which is yeah, it's probably not a good idea to join such a thing
 Right, um, we can say a little bit more. Although I think that's you know, very cool news
 Fascinating. Yeah, we can say a little bit more about this issue in general. That is for example if you if you were to
 Find that your machine had automatically connected to a hot spot that you were suspicious of
 first of all
 Um answering his question. It's probably not the case that just the act of connecting
 Could be a problem so long as you've got probably you're using windows xp or maybe vista
 But one way or another you've probably have a personal firewall on
 So as we know
 Today's exploits generally are people going out through a firewall asking bad stuff to come back in
 Or in the case of a of a Wi-Fi people for example doing non encrypted email log on where their username and password are going out in the clear
 In both instances the user is doing something with the computer and somebody running a deliberately running a malicious Wi-Fi hotspot
 Would be monitoring that however with a firewall up just the the act of connecting to even something malicious
 As long as you recognize it and shut down is probably not
 There's like no opportunity for you to be infected in the normal case
 Yeah, and and and to add to this it is a bad idea in general to log into ad hoc networks
 Right, uh, there's a difference and you can tell whether it's a
 infrastructure
 Network or an ad hoc network and an infrastructure one is with a Wi-Fi
 Base station and you know like at the coffee shop and so forth the normal style ad hoc is coming off of somebody's computer
 So you really probably don't want to join a network off somebody's computer
 That would be just be very trusting the the reference i'm going to put on the website is from
 Dwight silverman's tech blog in the houston chronicle. That's where I saw it first
 He it's a it's a great story
 And it just it's it's a bug in windows microsoft says they plan to fix it at some point in the next xp service pack
 But that who knows when that's going to be unknown whether it's in vista
 Interesting, isn't that weird? Yeah, it's cool christy trick of westerville, Ohio has been watching some tv
 He writes I was watching tv the other night. I happen to see the new mac commercial. Oh, I love that
 Yeah, uh
 It makes fun of the vista user account control and the commercial the windows machine says
 What is it receiving a connection request except or deny?
 And it goes on and effect i'll find it while you answer the question
 Well, I feel so quite funny after thinking about it for a moment the mac does the same thing
 I own both the pc and a mac and i've used both vista and os 10 quite a bit
 They both require approval for system wide changes installing software and other similar actions if anything
 The uac and vistas more relaxed because it doesn't require a password it only seems more aggressive because the desktop fades away
 That's right and the uac windows running in the foreground
 But I believe the effect is the same. I wonder what your opinion is on the subject is one better than the other
 You know bill gates was incensed about this commercial. No kidding. Yeah, he said they lie
 How do they allow to lie like this because he makes the same point? It's it's we're just copying what apple's been doing for years
 Okay, now you know better than i do leo because you have a lot more mac experience than i but
 Doesn't the vista uac the user account control seem more in your face seem to actually require more
 Yes, this is what i want to do acknowledgments than the mac it does uh, yeah
 And it and i think some of that ad comes from the early beta versions of vista when it would do it
 All that it was so bad. It would take four clicks to get anything done
 The actual shipping version of vista is much
 Less intrusive. I don't mind it and again as a mac user i'm used to some of this already
 I don't think it's if it's more it's not much more
 Right and it's not more intrusive now if it's not asking you for a password
 That means you're running as an administrator and you right want to rethink that strategy
 You might want to start using a limited user account on vista
 On the other hand if you do that then you will be asked for a password every time one of those pops up
 Well, not every time but every time there's a system change
 There are certain rules about when it needs a password when it needs to be an administrator to make the change
 Frankly, that's what the mac does as well and i think that's good. Let me play as long as we're talking
 Hello i'm a mac mac is issued a citation cancel or allow allow and i'm a pc
 You're returning mac's agitation cancel or allow allow
 Okay, why excuse mac is asking question cancel or allow allow
 He's part of vista my new operating system pc's have a lot of security problems
 So he asked me to authorize pretty much anything i did you're pointing out vista's flaws cancel or allow allow
 I could turn him off but then he wouldn't give me any warnings at all and that would defeat the purpose
 You were coming to a sad realization cancel or allow
 I mean, it's a funny ad, but I think chris is absolutely right. Uh, this is something apple's done for quite some time and frankly
 I'd say it's the number one reason that mac's are have been more secure than xp. Well, yes and and you know all serious
 It's a genuous of apple to make this ad frankly
 Right in all seriousness. Um one of the things i have said and we will do
 User there's like there's much more technology going on in user account control than just that dialogue
 So we will be doing a security now episode about the vista's user account control
 And really going on there because there's a lot of technology there
 But you know this comes back to the fundamental security rule that we talk about often which is there there isn't a way
 to achieve security
 in the existing structure without requiring
 Some trade-off with user convenience. I mean the the browser scripting problem that you and I always
 Yeah, we always tussle with is exactly that as you know
 You want scripting on turning it off and and selectively enabling it is a pain in the butt
 But it's the only way to browse without scripting on
 And while still be able to go to some sites and and similarly the problem with windows is that
 Malware has access to everything going on in your system
 And of course this dialogue popping up is to give you some opportunity to intercept
 Malware doing things behind your back to make sure that this is something you're really asking to be done
 And there's no way to do that without asking you. Yeah in the current model unfortunately. Well
 And I don't find it onerous. I don't find it a pain in the butt
 It's a reminder to me that I'm doing something that's modifying the system
 I think it should ask and we got a good commercial out of it. Anyway, it's hysterical
 I mean, it's a very funny commercial Tony Chen of Orlando, Florida wants to know how to best perform long-term
 Data archiving he writes I work as a eunuch sis admin where security is only one aspect of my job
 It's been noted many times in the podcast that due to the high
 Aerial density that's the number of bits per square centimeter of today's hard drives
 They're constantly throwing out errors that the drive controller controller or firmware is correcting on the fly
 That's that ECC you talk about Steve, right?
 Do these errors only occur when the drive is powered on in the words of a drive sitting unused
 Outside a computer in a box for instance is the drive protected from degradation
 Maybe but not humiliation assuming it's stored properly without the firmware to constantly correct it
 I've automated backups to hard drives. Oh, he's worried about archiving things off drive
 For fear they won't be recoverable on a dead dvd are at least with a hard drive
 I can use disc warrior on OS 10 or spin right to recover some if not all of my data
 So I guess what he's saying is his way his method of backing up is to and I know people who do this
 Backing up on a hard drive put it in the shrink wrap and stick in the corner. Yep. Is that better than putting on a dvd?
 Okay, well, this brings up a couple issues
 There was some interesting dialogue on twit a few weeks ago that I caught that I thought was interesting because
 All the studies that I have read have said that recordable media
 is
 More reliable for example than pressed media
 That is that pressed media for example traditional dvd's, you know regular consumer video dvd's
 Have been shown to have a long term oxidization problem with their surface
 Which due to the different process used in recordable either cdr or dvd are
 Um, that those those photo based
 Technologies do not have and so properly stored
 What everything that i've seen says that recordable media has more reliability over the long term than
 Non recordable media just from a disc, you know, an optical disc stand together. We said it the other way around. I probably i exactly the way around
 Yeah, okay. Um, okay. So now in terms of long term hard drive storage. The answer is
 Once upon a time there was a problem with something called stiction
 Stiction was a phenomenon where the head would
 essentially molecular bond
 To the hard disk surface because they were both so smooth
 The head was so smooth the heart and the disc platter was so smooth that if you turn the drive off over a long period of time
 You would end up with the with the the head literally just sort of welding itself to the hard drive
 Wow, and in fact, that's one of the reasons that heads park on the inner area of the disc
 They go to the inside spindle for two reasons one is that if the disc is bounced by mistake
 You can imagine that the platter edges are going to be oscillating wildly out on the out on the on their perimeter
 But because they're anchored at the spindle in the middle. There's not much motion in there
 So you'd much rather have your head on the inside
 Near the spindle mounting where there's not going to be much oscillation if the drive is bounced
 Then sitting way out on the outer edge flying back and forth and up and down
 Secondly the from a mechanical standpoint the starting torque of the spindle motor
 Needs to be much less to make sure that any station is broken
 To get the head loose of the platter as the drive starts up
 You can also imagine from a from from a just a standard mechanics of physics standpoint
 If the head is way out on the perimeter and if that's where it's sitting
 It's got a much greater mechanical advantage to keep the disc from starting up
 In order to overcome the the friction between the head and the disc platter
 Thus heads are now parked on the inside of the drive as a much better place for them to stay
 You I haven't heard of stiction being a problem for a long time
 Back when spin right was young and people had this problem
 The the common wisdom was you powered your computer up and then you bonked the hard drive
 With this with the handle of a screwdriver
 Literally to give it a little bit of a knock in order to shake the head loose from the platter
 And many times that worked for people
 but
 With current technology and new drive and head lubricants, that's just not a problem anymore
 So but I still hear my hard drive with a screwdriver
 Bonk it with a screwdriver. I used to love that
 Keep those keep those bits from getting to to set in place
 It works it does work in the old days it did yeah
 And it was the best thing to tell people oh you got stiction hit it and people go what?
 So this is one of the one of the advantages of using for example ace a current
 Technology removable firewire or usb drive is you are able to plug it in do some backups
 And just stick that drive on the shelf to answer his question
 You know in the reasonable term like 10 20 years
 It is
 There's no reason that a drive would would age
 In a way that would cause it to become less reliable when it's just sitting on the shelf doing nothing
 You want to you know, make sure you don't subject it to temperature extremes for for long-term storage
 But the drive would be much more stable that way than if they were in constant use
 Where as google has shown and we will be talking about next week
 Reliability really does start to suffer after a couple of years. So sitting sitting there
 Uh, well, you know, I mean cosmic rays hit it and stuff
 But it's not gonna you're not gonna lose enough data make it worth. Nope or something to worry about
 You affect the I think Alex Lindsay tells a story of somebody who uh, you know hard drives have gotten so cheap
 The video editor people who will just when the project's edited and done. They'll just take that drive
 Wrap it up put it aside. That's the backup. Yep. Yep. Eden Lee of Beijing China by way of Arizona
 Has been paying attention. He asks I'm a long-time listener first time emailer
 I was listening to your latest episode about determining the origins of spam
 By using the received email headers you mentioned that it was possible to determine that someone had faked a message
 From grc.com by putting in the domain name for the first received header
 However, because the ip address of the connecting machine was included
 It was possible to prove your domain did not relate the message the domain name doesn't match the number
 Since the sending agent can add whatever headers it wants. Can it just fake a path with a valid ip addresses from grc to itself before sending it out?
 It's kind of similar the earlier question
 To the malicious center would look entirely valid since it controls the headers in this case
 It would appear that grc had sent the message to the sender and the sender was just doing its duty by relaying it to the next server
 So kind of like a man in the middle attack you put grc first and then put yourself in there underneath
 Yes, is there any recourse against this? Am I missing something?
 He is not missing anything and this this one wins the prize for the cleverest
 hack around
 The way of that we talked about last week of backtracking and determining a spoofed email
 Now one thing that the vulnerability of course
 So first of all just to quickly summarize is rather than having a header like saying that this originated from grc.com
 That sort of just is is there
 and then the second header in a row would be
 added by the
 SMTP server
 that the
 that the spammer
 Connected to so that that server would would would be able to see the connection from the spammer
 He's saying intelligently fake the very first spoofed email header
 So that it says grc.com connected to
 their ip address
 So that there so that the chain I was talking about when I answered a related question earlier
 The chain of headers would be unbroken and it would literally look like grc
 Had used some random consumers machine
 Somewhere else as an email relay and that it was then relaying it and sure enough that works
 Of course the giveaway is if you looked at the ip range or did a reverse dns look up on the ip
 You would see you know some Comcast dot net ip or or you know
 Basically a a consumer looking ip rather than a regular server
 So you would never send it to a that
 You will use that to relay your mail
 It is it is a clever hack for getting around this notion of an obviously spoofed
 Received header, but i'll tell you why it's probably never happens because nobody looks that closely anyway
 There's no reason for a spammer to worry about it
 Exactly why go to the effort
 Right there's no I mean if we all started looking at our headers, I guess
 But we don't and it doesn't matter the spam still gets through
 jeff p is st. lou
 St. Louis mazure that is is learned or has learned to become more cautious on the net
 He says listening to security now
 I've also learned to question things when they don't seem right, which is what i'm doing now
 I recently logged onto my work laptop at home connected my vpn to do some work
 I opened an internal web location HTTP colon slash something that has always worked in this manner to my surprise
 I get a charter communications search page. That's his internet service provider. It says page not found I tried again
 Then another internal site another no luck in the past week. I noticed on my home machines
 That 404 errors have been redirected to charter
 I thought they were probably starting to proxy web traffic or been doing it, which has now made it easy to see however when
 On the vpn, I thought all traffic would be tunneled to the corporate server. Why is charter seeing it?
 It still gets that charters served error page
 Even when he's on vpn, how's that possible? I did go to grc with and without the vpn connected
 It did report two different ip addresses
 From what I know I can't explain what is happening. I can't either is interesting can charter proxy
 HTTP traffic when it's connected to the vpn
 Any ideas?
 Well, we know that it cannot that is to say that that if if you're
 Trying to go through a vpn or your your traffic is going through a vpn to your remote destination
 That that no one can proxy that connection in the way that is happening
 That is you ought to be able to get a connection into your your corporate network
 And it would be an encrypted tunnel that is impenetrable
 Listening to this the the two things I would ask jeff to check would be his browser's proxy settings
 There have been various attacks where where proxying was turned on so if his browser is is not just using his
 Raw internet connection, but is for some reason running through a proxy
 It might be possible depending upon the way his vpn is configured for him to still be using his raw non vpn
 Traffic and that's when he thinks he's going to his internal site
 He's actually going to the external internet and then charter is saying wait a minute
 We are now unable to find this and giving him an error message
 So the first thing I would look at is the proxy settings on his browser
 Secondly check your hosts file this you know this happened in the last week or so and it's new behavior
 It's possible that something may have crept into the hosts file and is messing up the dns resolution
 On his system basically trying to intercept traffic and route it somewhere else
 There's one other thing I would mention a number of I've seen this on a number of vpn clients
 And i'm actually just launching a couple now just to see um
 Allow you to route web traffic not through the vpn
 Deliberately, yes, so uh in fact you'll see a check mark in the settings
 That says something like route all traffic through vpn and that's genn that I would suspect is being unchecked or it would say
 Uh, do not route a web traffic through the vpn clearly. It's not being routed through the vpn
 Right, so but I but I think that it's not necessarily something nefarious
 I think that that is a setting in some vpn clients
 Well, then certainly look for that jeff and that makes sense because uh if you're surfing the net and you just want to surf the net
 As opposed to using the corporate network for transferring files
 You might not want to go through the overhead of going all the way to your office
 Well and moreover, they might by policy they might not want you to use that much bandwidth over there
 Over there of their vpn server. They might want to reserve they might want to reserve that for email and just you know internal corporate stuff
 Excellent point. Let me just i'm just gonna look at my I have a sisco vpn
 Uh client running here, and i'm just out of curiosity. I i'm pretty sure i've seen this as a choice
 In a lot of uh, I absolutely have what when you talk about that the the name on that setting it saying seems very familiar
 And i'll bet jeff's gonna go. Oh, that's exactly what it was now
 He raises another interesting thing which I think we should talk about and you're seeing this more and more
 Um when you use a company's dns servers
 It's possible to configure them to handle a 404
 Yep
 And in fact, of course, you know, we we know that what was it vera sign that got famously in trouble
 Because they ended up redirecting unknown domains to their own, you know commercial advertising page
 Essentially and and you know the whole internet community got very upset with that
 Yeah, that that was wrong because they're just a registrar. They're not your right net service provider
 Um the same thing happens with open dns if you use in fact, I think that's how open ds dns monetizes itself
 If you use the set of your isp's dns server if you use open dns one of the advantages of it is
 Open dns does a does a very good job of trying to guess
 What you were trying to say when you type in an address
 So it can fix a mistyped address if you type cmo instead of dot c om
 It'll fix it, but also if you type a 404 it'll give you actually a very useful search page. So it can be a positive
 Uh, but it but that's important to know that many eyes are starting to do that and they do have that and they have that power
 Yeah, and they do it because they put ads on there, right? That's what vera sign was all about
 Ted hollifornia has been thinking about email spoofing who hasn't
 I have a question regarding the spam backtracking episode you had mentioned that in some cases
 The received headers and email can be many
 Based on how they're routed to the final destination
 Is there a chance that more than one email header could be spoofs say 10
 Or 20 or 30 headers before you'll find the source of the zombie machine
 Wouldn't it make sense to throw in a number of headers from which spam could be coming from in a red herring style attack
 Yeah, I mean that there's another creative approach is to literally bury yourself in
 A whole bunch of spam headers now again. It's the it's the last header in that group
 That is going to be the real connection point
 To the email as it moves to its first SMTP server because the destination SMTP server will add
 The the top received header to the existing pile of them
 But and so there's no way for a spammer to bury its received header among others
 But it certainly could confuse the issue just by having a bunch of them
 And you know just make some poor recipients eyes cross when he you know
 Things he's going to be tricky and and look at the email headers and just sees this whole nest of them
 There's there's two morals to take away from this one is that SMTP is hideously insecure
 I mean it just makes it does nothing to validate headers
 Zero, right and just yeah, I mean anything you could do anything you want
 But I think also spammers don't even bother because so what?
 So what if you figure out it spoofed?
 Well, yes, and in fact, we're probably like guilty of being so much
 Overboard on the technology relative to the value of the content of the junk that's being sent out
 Right, I mean if I mean it's phenomenally amazing to me that spam still works
 I mean that you know these spammers are making
 Reportedly an amazing amount of money just by spewing all this junk out on the net
 It's like who clicks on that stuff on the last analysis. That might be the best way to fight spam is not to
 Not to do it
 Don't buy anything from them. Unfortunately. It is so cheap to send this stuff, especially now that we've got spam bot network
 Yeah, they're free. Yep. Well, you have to pay some hacker, but that's about it
 Yeah, and in fact, don't even when you know, I think people a lot of people say oh, well, let me click
 I can click the unsubscribe link, right? No
 Yeah, no, all that does is all that does is validate that you exist
 No, don't click anything
 Todd's service of riverside, California has crucial files he wants to protect
 I'm very tempted he says to use one of these online backup sites
 To back up the files from the computers at my house
 Making DVDs at regular intervals is a pain and I have to move them off site in case the house catches fire and melts all my pretty backup disks
 Well, he's got the right idea. I think off site backups really important
 He says I do fear these online backup sites
 How do I protect my data from them if I back up all my computers data these online sites can't the operators?
 Look at my files. I've got financial information on one of my pcs
 My daughter is writing novels on another. Can I trust the encryption on these online backup sites?
 Can I add my own encryption and not give them the keys?
 That great question. I love the question. Yeah, I mean, um, you got it. I mean
 You got to trust some of these guys though, right?
 Well, you know, I would add one more thing and that is if they have the ability to decrypt
 Then they could be legally compelled to do so. Ah
 And and that's the I I ought to tell you. I mean I actually have the domains crypt keepers
 Dot com because I've been interested in the idea of providing secure
 You know online backup services. Not like I have. I'm believe me. Oh, it's not on the list of things
 I'm gonna do but I just I grabbed those domains a long time ago because I like this idea
 I don't know if it ever makes economic sense with hard drives becoming so cheap and with things like
 Bitlocker and of course true crypt being available, but you know, it is always doing it is an interesting alternative
 So to answer Todd's question again, I it's not so much
 That I would worry about malicious intent on the on the part of the backup sites
 But we know especially with everything that's been going on with the patriot act in the us and concerns about you know
 What what subpoenas can be issued? I would be very concerned about even a reputable company
 Being subject to a subpoena and compelled to decrypt somebody's off-site backup
 Undercourt order. So what you want is you want a technology where you are absolutely sure
 you're giving data to people and there's no way they can use it that the data is just an opaque blob and
 Thinking about the answer to this question. I thought hey, you know true crypt would be a perfect solution
 You configured true crypt in that mode where it uses a file as its container
 So and then you mount that as a drive you see a drive from from your perspective
 On the outside the operating system just sees a file that one file is then what you keep synchronized
 With your off-site backup facility
 Anytime if something happened you would be able to get that file back and apply your true crypt
 Passwords in order to decrypt it. Only you in the world would be able to make any sense of that file
 And it's it's just a cool solution because basically you see a drive letter
 Everything that you're storing there is encrypted in that container
 Always stored as we know the wake true crypt operates always stored in an encrypted fashion never in the clear
 And so that one file
 Anybody can have it essentially and in fact as we talked about a long time ago when when we were talking about true crypt
 It's it's exactly what I do for my precious cargo
 I I burn true crypt containers onto
 DVDs and send them to my attorney and to my mom and you know
 I just know that that stuff is out of here
 I can always get it if I need to but you know if their home or office was burglarized
 I've lost nothing because nobody else can make use of that data. I become a kind of fan of these off-site backups effect
 Carbonite was which is one of them and a really good one. It's a sponsor of the radio show so disclaimer there
 Um, but the the reason I like that is because it's in the background. It's doing it all the time
 It's always backing up and I'm backing up podcast. I mean I use it because I back up
 Our our raw tracks are the shows and the podcast so that nothing gets lost. You know, I've lost some podcasts and that's been very embarrassing
 So this has been a boon. I don't care if somebody
 Some government agency wants to hear the podcast. So I'm not gonna encrypt that but it makes sense to do that for your financial data
 I am looking at carbonites
 Privacy statement and certainly before you use any of these services you should read their privacy statements and make sure they're verified by an independent third party
 Um, but one of the things they say is, you know, they do encrypt they encrypt with SSL
 Um, and they have secure, you know, they have all the security on the facility and stuff
 But it says carbonite will not share your encrypted files with any third party unless such action is necessary
 To comply with the government or court order legally compelling us to do so
 So, I mean, I'm sure every one of these services has
 A statement like that right and so the the from the consumer watch standpoint
 You simply give them a pre encrypted blob and there's nothing they can do
 Nobody can ever do anything with it. They'll comply with the court order. They'll give the court order the unencrypted data
 We're moving their encryption, but the court can't do anything. Now the court can come to you
 That's that's between you and the court exactly mark frouchy and rockville maryland is wondering
 Uh, how do spammers get our email addresses in the first place?
 Could it be that our fens family and colleagues are unwittingly turning our addresses over to the spammers and malware writers?
 You know, we had never really talked about this and and I know that a lot of people
 Probably have a sense for how this happens. Um, I have some experience myself running an SMTP server
 Which i'll share, but one of the things that makes me cringe leo more than anything else is when
 Someone uses so someone I know who has my
 Cherished and protected email address uses a website to send me something, you know, like oh
 You're valentine has sent you a valentine state guard
 Or mom don't do that. Yeah, yes
 Yeah, because they're there deliberately giving your email address to some website that now has it and lord knows
 What they're going to do with it from there. Yeah, and it may be evights fine. I'm sure it is or or e greetings
 But you know who knows and just mom didn't check
 Yes mom didn't read that privacy policy
 So this is true. That's probably one way, huh? That's uh and certainly websites are being scraped
 The other thing we knew from from the way
 grc's email addresses used to be getting out is
 We would be getting lots of spam to our support and sales email accounts
 Even though those were those were scrape protected on our website
 What was happening was people who had written to grc support or or sales?
 They would get some malware on their machine that was scanning their machine for other email addresses
 And combining them into a master database
 So it's certainly the case that malware one of the things malware has done
 Is like mailed stuff out. Well, we know many viruses like this in the old days
 That you'd you'd get your machine infected with and they would send themselves to everybody in your address book
 So that same kind of that same kind of scenario is now being used by spammers
 The one thing I would add as a as an operator of an SMTP server
 I've watched the traffic on my server carefully and it's phenomenal
 I mean doing packet captures. You will see remote SMTP spam servers connect to
 Any other SMTP server, you know twit or grc or amazon or anybody and just sit there guessing
 I mean literally alphabetical dictionary lists of names. They just go, you know, albert@grc.com andrew@grc.com
 You know anyone at grc.com and they just go through the list
 So the one thing I would say to anybody is if you ever change your email address again
 Change it to something
 Unguessable, not something that's probably going to be in someone's dictionary somewhere
 Because I mean back when I was just Steve at grc.com. It was not pretty leo
 No, no, I get mailed leo's hair at leoville.com. Oh, no, I get several thousand messages a day
 leo's hair is an account that you have where you have a
 Wildcard account. It's anything well
 What happens is the mail service that I filters my spam. I use a commercial company called mail route
 Knows what my canonical my good addresses are
 And only forwards me mail to those good addresses, but it gives me statistics on all the other addresses
 I see and besides an and sally and I get some de leo's hair
 My only my thinking is some somebody didn't like me added it to some mailing list somewhere in ever since i've been getting stuff
 So maybe it was my mom. I don't know mark. Jim at thrington of autowa, canada writes our is this our last one?
 No, we got it. This is a we're gonna have a this is number 12
 But we have a we have a closing comment using comment
 I've been a long time fan of grc from reading the interesting security articles and trying the freeware programs to using shields up
 I've listened to every single security now podcast from the very beginning
 And I have bought and used spin right six to keep my hard drives working. This is the kind of guy we like
 My question is how good is port knocking as a security measure to selectively allow connections to closed ports in a router
 A port knocking. This is something i'm starting to hear about now a little bit
 Thanks for doing a great job with the podcast and look forward to hearing more. What is port knocking?
 I am so high about port knocking. It is a very very cool solution
 It's it's had some bad press because people are attacking
 Weak implementations of port knocking saying that port knocking is bad, but there it's just very clever
 And in fact, I've been considering using it in some fashion for my own security because it's it can be
 Really bulletproof. The idea is you've got a you've got a router with all ports closed
 If you want from the outside say that you're a telecommuter
 And you want access into your network with port knocking
 You would send a pattern of packets a sequence of packets to
 specific ports
 On your router a sequence only to you and not only do you like the route
 It would exactly right and it could be as long an arbitrary as you want it to be of course
 You know as we know the longer the sequence the less chance anyone's gonna be able to guess it blah blah blah
 And with 65535 possible ports that is to say a 16 essentially 16 bits per port
 If you just did four packets now you're at 64 bits
 And if you do eight packets you're at 128 bits of equivalent security the idea being that the router
 notices
 The sequence of
 Packets that it's rejecting remember you have your router running in full stealth mode. So it's blocking these packets
 But that even though it's blocking them it can still sense them. It's still receiving them
 So you send a specific sequence of packets from your IP your router or some software running behind it
 Maybe for example reading the router log in real time
 It sees a given IP
 Has sent a matching sequence of packets and it says oh this must be somebody who knows the secret knock
 And so it then alters the router's configuration on the fly to allow inbound traffic from that IP
 I mean, there's just nothing wrong with this leo. It's a tremendously clever idea
 I bet I'll have to ask I bet it's kind of thing a star. Oh is a security gateway would implement
 Be oh, yeah, they might do it. They're they're very up to that. You know the new seven came out
 This is a commercial by the way right now
 Those of you who was a smooth segue leo
 By the segue no it just made me think of this and I thought well
 Let's do the star of course has been a sponsor of the show for quite some time now last 30 episodes something like that
 And uh and through the rest of this year and we're just really thrilled
 They did just update to release seven and i'm wondering of their newest of their star of security gateway software
 And i'm wondering if that's what they added so much new stuff
 Including and we talked about this before transparent transparent email encryption and decryption
 So it happens at the the gateway. So users don't even have to worry about it. It's automatic
 uh digital signatures. It's based on s-mime or open pgp
 Uh really slick. There's also a secure remote access via ssl built into its vpn. So that's much easier
 Ssl vpn is so slick. Uh, so now ipsec l2 tp over ipsec ppt ppt tunneling with ssl
 Uh, you got it all
 In fact, uh, I think it's the only uh utm appliance on the market with this kind of uh flexibility and vpn and remote access
 You can cluster them. So you can scale. I mean it just goes on and on try at v7
 In your business free trial is waiting for you all you have to do is go to a s t a r o dot com and now
 The best news for you non commercial users and i'm really pleased to hear this
 They continue to offer the home use package absolutely free, but now with version seven
 Not only do you get the software absolutely free
 You get the base license all subscriptions and a starow up to date
 the complete set
 Free they use to charge 79 euros a year for this. It's now absolutely free that's limited to 10 ip's 10 users and a
 I'm sorry. My phone keeps ringing a thousand concurrent connections, but basically, uh, this is such a good deal
 Try a starow v7 and if you're a non commercial user, you've got to check it out as t a ro
 Dot com or you can call a starow and get a free trial of the starow security gateway appliance in your business 877 the number four
 as t
 A ro and I will ask them about port knocking because I wouldn't be surprised
 Anyway, uh port knocking. Is it is that something that's brand new because I hadn't heard about that till very late?
 It's it's it's been around for the last year or so you you need something on the client side to generate the knocks
 And that's kind of tricky because you'd really like to use
 Well, you like to use some sort of raw packet technology, but there are ways to do that with udp packets where you're able to aim them at
 Your ip on the fly. Um, and so you need you need something at each end. I just think it's very clever
 I mean what you could also do is just use a single packet containing your own
 Basically a password as long as you want and just when the router sees any packet
 It takes a look at it and it checks to see whether it's your magic authentication
 Let me in packet and then takes off from there that my name a little more risky because couldn't somebody intercept and catch that
 Ah, they could accept that there are then what you would do is to take care of that
 You would base the details actually i've given this some thought leo you would base because i mean i really
 Aren't you you're gonna do it i'm thinking about it. Um, what you would do is you would base the content of the packet
 On your current source ip and port perfect
 So you have the ip address or something
 Yes, exactly and nobody could spoof
 No one could get a connection that spoofed your ip because they would be at a different ip
 And and would never be able to it was so basically it would really allow traffic only from that remote ip
 Unbelievable kind of a cool idea a closing comment from an abbot listener paul fissure with the hues in illinois
 He says in episode 79 of security now you mentioned the two-thirds of all mail on the internet is spam
 That's what we're hearing from a lot of different sources including yep
 Some of the companies that actually filter this stuff
 He says you probably have access to better information than i do
 But i thought you might be interested in another data point the mail servers at our company
 He uses huge 35 000 plus worldwide users has a spam rate of get this
 99.7
 percent
 That is 99.7 percent of all email bound toward our email servers is identified and blocked as spam
 We get very few false positives and very little complaints from users are receiving unwanted spam in their mailboxes
 It seems unbelievable, but that's what our servers have seen for some time
 I really enjoy the podcast hope you continue and i'm also happy that you could force leo to do one every week
 He knows that i'm a lazy bones. It's the one twit podcast i can always rely on fortunately
 I have no stories for you about spin right i own a copy, but i've never had to use it
 I'm hoping i just just owning it will keep my drive from going bad. Yes, it's you've terrorized your drive
 That's right. I have to drive knows you got spin right in your body. I'll say, okay. I give up. I give up. I'll keep working
 I keep working. You know actually his number matches my number. Yep. Um, but I think when then they say 70 percent of all
 The males worldwide is spam that's a that's a conservative number. I think so too. I'm much more like 99.8 or 9
 Right. It's it's in fact. I think it's a hand point nine percent. It's awful
 Yeah, but fortunately the good news is there are good technological solutions that can that get rid of this
 You know good filtering solutions that get rid of most of the spam
 Most spammers don't make much of an attempt to hide their spam and those that do get through but
 Yeah, because they're just on the shotgun
 You know profile just like we're gonna send this to as many gazillion people as possible and a few of them will get through and that's
 Gonna pay the bills
 Sons of guns
 Well, Steve we've come to the end of another mod four episode boy. This was fun so much interesting material
 Yeah, we've had some great feedback from from the q&a people and I liked I ran across a number piece of email that I
 That I sort of liked as this closing comment thing so that we may add that as a as a future security now
 Just so we can begin to you know when when they're relevant and interesting include some of our listeners
 We do a listener mail in every episode of the daily giz was and it's it's in many ways the one of the most fun parts of the show
 So I don't use the great idea and next week
 We're gonna talk about this amazing study that google did on the on what they discovered about the reliability of their
 monster hard drive
 Farms that they've got that runs google
 By popular request I was gonna make a little mention of it this week, but so many people wanted more coverage. I said, okay, let's let's do that
 Oh, absolutely. I mean, this is an area where you're you're probably one of the top experts in the world
 So it's it's absolutely something we should talk about
 Steve we've come to the end of the fabulous episode, but it's not over you can get more at grc.com
 That's Steve site where you'll find spin right but also all of his great free security utilities now the 48 million user
 I don't think any and there are not many people who could say that anything they've done have 48 million users
 And I have to say that's a really clean number
 I I go to the the the trouble on shields up of maintaining a list of the most recent
 4k that is 4,096 users
 So anyone who's poking around the site
 you know using shields up for you know like half of house you know several hours half a day
 I am not multiply counting them if their IP is already in the list
 I just I just move it to the top of the list and and only
 So so basically I'm only counting you know really people who are gone
 Long enough to have their IP fall off the most recent 4,096 users
 So I mean it's it's a really good number and you're right 48 million is very cool
 That's just amazing
 Also, we've got 16 kilobit versions for the bandwidth challenged and Elaine's great transcription
 So you can read along if I could better wrap this up so Elaine will have time transcripted
 Before we get it on the on the internet grc.com
 Thank you so much for being here Steve Gibson. We thank you for listening and we'll see you next time
 on security now
