 This is Twitch.
 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by AOL Radio at aol.com/podcasting.
 This is Security Now is Steve Gibson, Episode 84 from March 22nd, 2007.
 Your questions, Steve's answers.
 Security Now is brought to you by Astaro, makers of the Astaro Security Gateway on the
 web at www.astaroh.com.
 And by Nerds on Site, looking to grow your IT service business, find out how Nerds on
 Site can help visit "I Wanna Be a Nerd" dot com.
 It's time for Security Now and because it's Episode 84, that's good news.
 That means it's one of our divisible by four episodes.
 Every fourth episode we like to answer your questions, Steve has a parcel of them.
 Hello, Steve Gibson.
 Hey, Leo, great to be back with you.
 It's nice to have you.
 You've been great, by the way, and I don't know if people know this, but Steve has been
 doing a regular segment on my radio show as well.
 But it's just been great.
 It's going over very well.
 It's a mini security now because it's only six minutes, but still, I think it's getting
 the word out to a wider audience, and that's the kind of important.
 Yeah, it's really cool, too, because you've got a whole different geographical spread.
 You're on XM channel 152, I think it is.
 That's really neat.
 I'm really happy about that.
 All six hours of the show every weekend.
 Did you happen to mention GRC and Shields up maybe early in the show on Saturday?
 Yes, you know, could well be.
 I don't know.
 I don't remember.
 Why'd you get it?
 Something happened on the server.
 It's like, whoa, it's like in the old days of tech TV, whenever you mentioned GRC, I just
 want to hold on to the edge of the desk.
 Oh, I'm glad to hear that.
 If it was during Showtime, that's probably what it was.
 I don't know what else.
 Anyway, yeah, because we're now in all over the country in 13 or 14 markets, we just got
 Washington DC.
 I mean, it's growing very rapidly, so it's a big audience, and it's, yeah, I'm really
 happy about it.
 I'm happy to use it to expose people to some of the Twitter, you know, the best Twitter
 folks like you and Amber, and that's really, that's a neat opportunity to do partolo does
 it.
 But let's get to work.
 Oh, before we do, hey, some happy news.
 Last episode, we said goodbye to nerds on site.
 They had only bought a three-week schedule.
 We think they're a great company, and we were really glad that they came on the show,
 and I think for a smaller company, I understand it's a big commitment, so we were happy to
 give them a three-week schedule.
 We don't normally do that.
 But they've had such success with their results with their ads that they're back now for three
 more months.
 So thrilled.
 That's very cool.
 It just confirms what we know, of course, which is that people who listen to this podcast
 are very active and pay attention, and the people who sponsor it get the results because,
 you know, it's a good audience.
 So let me just mention, we're sponsored once again, not only by a star, who is, of course,
 still with us, and we'll be through the rest of the year, but by other good folks at nerds
 on site, I want to be a nerd.com.
 Maybe you can explain what they are because I'm not exactly sure, Steve.
 It sounds like it's kind of a guild of tech support, IT people.
 Yeah, I think the word is federation.
 They're like a federation of individual consultants who have this organization that sort of provides
 them with an umbrella identity, they get to all, I don't know, anything about the contractual
 details.
 But you get to keep your own business, you're still doing your own thing.
 Exactly.
 But certainly there's some sort of, you know, fielding of leads and, you know, they hold
 educational seminars.
 They have, they have, they have get-togethers where they all pull together.
 You know, I've done a deal with them that allows the nerds to use Spinrite to help their own
 customers, so it was like a special expanded site license kind of deal.
 Yeah.
 I mean, I just, I just think that they're, you know, I mean, I know for a fact that there
 is a tremendous need for this kind of business.
 And certainly the quality of the people you get to have come out and help you matters
 a lot.
 I've, frankly, I've not heard great things about that geek squad group that seem to be
 doing that.
 People talk about long lead times and then not really great performance.
 This is not them.
 I don't get confused.
 This is nerds on site.
 They're on, one of the other things I love about it.
 It's very, most podcast advertisers are very nationalistic.
 They buy the ad for, mostly for the U.S. market.
 But nerds on sites in Canada, U.S., Mexico, England, Australia, South Africa, and Bolivia.
 So-
 Wait, wait, wait.
 And India.
 I just happened to know this.
 Wow.
 So we, and that's where, we're there too.
 So that's one of the reasons podcasting is so good for them.
 Anyway, we thank them for their support.
 If you are a nerd, you're in business for yourself, but you don't want to be in business
 by yourself, focus on your passion, not the burdens of running a business with the help
 of nerds on site.
 No matter what you do, PC to Mac, Cisco to Oracle, fix it, website design, programmers,
 product managers, project managers, sales, trainers, security experts, antivirus gurus,
 and more.
 They especially like those nerds who troubleshoot, tear apart and rebuild their own systems
 in their spare time.
 I want to be a nerd.com register for a nerds only meeting in your area today.
 I want to be a nerd.com.
 We should make a little jingle for them.
 I want to be a nerd.com.
 Yeah.
 So let's say, let's get, because we have a bunch of great questions.
 I just love the questions that we get.
 Yep.
 Yep.
 We have no errata this week, well, actually there was some, but I sort of incorporated
 them into the Q&A because the errata were people making notes or comments and things.
 So we'll, we'll deal with that in the Q&A.
 I did want to share one fun spin right anecdote that put a smile on my face.
 This is from someone named Harim, it looks like hack, H-A-Q-U-E.
 He says, the subject of his, of his email was thanks for making spin right.
 He said, my name is Harim Hack and I am a computer tech working with a firm here in
 Toronto.
 So he's up on the east coast of Canada.
 He said, I would like to say that ever since I bought your product, life has been great.
 Yes, we fixed people's lives as well.
 He says, the firm keeps an old Dell server as its primary data server and the hard drive
 on the server was acting strange for the past few months.
 A few weeks ago, the disk drive was on the verge of death.
 However, I ran spin right on the server and within 12 hours, the drive was working like
 it was new.
 There were no signs of data loss and that awful noise was no longer there.
 Then he said, my boss was so impressed with the work, he gave me a promotion.
 So I love you guys, man.
 The best $89 I ever spent.
 Keep up the good work.
 Gosh, that's really great.
 That's great.
 Very nice, happy stuff.
 It's been right, of course, Steve's product and you can get that at grc.com.
 I use it.
 Nerds on site use it.
 If you have a hard drive, you ought to be using it too.
 Well, I fixed your computer a few weeks.
 It did.
 Save me.
 I'm still using, by the way, that drive that is fixed.
 I'm still using it.
 It's recording reliably now.
 Haven't had a single problem ever since.
 So it worked.
 It worked.
 Love it.
 Love it.
 I didn't even retire it.
 I mean, I thought, well, it's fixed.
 I don't even get a new one, which is a good thing is it was a wrap.
 Oh, no, it wasn't a Raptor.
 Was it a second hard drive that failed the Raptors or are they editing hard drives?
 Anyway, let's get to our questions.
 We've got quite a few of them here, starting with security now listener Ian Chapman of
 Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
 He found newer versions of that stealthy, stealthy wireless zero config update we were
 talking about.
 The one Microsoft didn't push out.
 Which we keep talking about and try to try and not to talk about, but we can never get
 away from this topic.
 Right.
 Check that will not die.
 KB 923154, that's knowledge base article 923154 has slightly newer versions of the wireless
 zero config files than KB 917021, newer by four days, hmm, the 22nd of August as opposed
 to the 18th.
 And a later build build 2979 instead of 297 seven, the files seem to be the same size of
 both updates.
 The update also includes a UPD S P a P I dot D L L and old D L L from 2005, but still
 newer than the version of my up to date patch system.
 I discovered these newer versions of a perusing the Ryan VM update packs to see if they included
 the 917021 files, in case you don't know, and I didn't know this, the Ryan VM packs
 are used to slipstream all XP patches into a new Windows installed is very handy thing
 to have.
 Yeah.
 Thought you might like to update the security now episode 81 notes.
 Yes.
 Again.
 Yet again.
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 Well, so, so what we have is we have a an update to the update, neither of which you would
 normally get when you were keeping your windows up to date using the normal Windows update
 facility, even if you were accepting everything that Microsoft wanted to do to your machine.
 So what we what we advise people of last week was this 0 to 1 knowledge base article that
 has files for days older than the one that that Ian found this 923154.
 So I will put a link to this in today's show notes for this episode number 84.
 It's worth mentioning though that this is what Microsoft calls a hot fix or a hot patch
 on the existing one.
 They specifically say that it's in case you have authentication problems with your Wi-Fi.
 It updates something called EAP, which we we just touched on briefly back when we were
 doing all of our Wi-Fi our Wi-Fi coverage.
 That's the extensible authentication protocol, which WPA encryption allows it basically allows
 different types of authentication to be to be easily added to the Wi-Fi protocol.
 Microsoft has a bunch of their own authentication that they like to use on their systems.
 So there are situations with which they discovered where this this sort of reauthentication will
 fail if you don't have this hot fix.
 They specifically say don't bother with this unless you have this problem, but it seems
 to me like, well, it's probably a good thing to do because you get newer files.
 So I can see why Ryan VM has you are using these and I would say this is not this is
 not nearly as critical to do.
 If for any reason it's it's not easy to do, but that's worth doing because then you're
 going to get more things fixed.
 You know, and for all we know that newer file just has they changed a name of a menu item
 or something.
 I mean, it may not make a big difference.
 It could be a small thing, it may not affect most people who are not using like one of
 these strange add on authentication protocols.
 I just want to let people know that it's there, and I hope we never talk about this again.
 We're done.
 Maybe David Weiss of Redmond, Washington, raises the following point about full radio silence
 in episode 83.
 You mentioned how to maintain what you call full radio silence on a Windows machine.
 Now I'm a Mac user couldn't believe it was so hard to turn off Wi-Fi on a Windows machine.
 It gets true because on the Mac it's just on the menu bar, you just pull it down and
 you say turn off Wi-Fi after I've blogged about it.
 By the way, I should point out that many laptops have an on/off switch, which is an even easier
 way to do it.
 After I've blogged about it, one of my astute readers pointed out that what you were talking
 about was radio silence when Wi-Fi is on, not trying to turn it off.
 I think the name full radio silence might be misleading, at least it was for me.
 Maybe you'd want to clarify this, at least for others that might have been confused like
 me.
 Yes, so I wanted to put this in to this episode exactly for that reason to draw the distinction
 that when I said full radio silence, I actually did mean it in the sense of the radio is on,
 but nothing is being sent out because that's been the challenge that we've been talking
 about for now.
 It's five weeks is trying to get Windows to allow your Wi-Fi to remain on but to be quiet
 about it, even when you're connected or not connected, because remember that even when
 you're connected, it's still sending out packets, seeing if you can find a better connection
 unless you say no, just be happy with what you've got.
 Don't be talking about the networks that I've hooked up to in the past.
 Like you, Leo, my laptops have an on/off switch.
 I would recommend for people to get in the habit of just turning the switch off, or you
 can normally disable Wi-Fi, depending upon which Wi-Fi manager you may be using on a
 laptop.
 Some of them have add-ons in addition to Microsoft.
 There are different ways you can actually turn off the radio.
 Being a fanatic about battery life, I like to do that all the time, just because anything
 that's on is taking its little share of life from the battery, which as a cordless user,
 you'd like to minimize that.
 So turning the radio off is certainly the best of all worlds.
 That's true, silence.
 Then it's been fully gagged as opposed to sending out all these little beacons and probes
 and things.
 What we were talking about is full radio silence while still using Wi-Fi.
 Yes, or being able to, or at least having the Wi-Fi radio enabled, whereas in the default
 case, Windows is just blabbing like crazy.
 You just in the system tray, you just right click on the Windows network little icon there
 and say disable the wireless and then it'll be done.
 Although as I said, it's really great when there's a switch on the side.
 That's the best way to do it.
 I think that's for airplanes.
 So when you get on the airplane, you switch off your radio.
 Stefan Schmidt, listening to us from Mississauga, Ontario, wanted to share a spam solution and
 get our opinion, and I do have an opinion on this one.
 He says, "After listening to you guys talk about spam during Q&A 13 at the end of 2006,
 the spam sent to our office email addresses forced me to do something to search for a product
 that could address this issue.
 He tried the filtering features and outlook and Norton to no avail.
 I agree.
 They don't work."
 What I found, he says, was a software program called Cloudmark Desktop at Cloudmark.com.
 It plugs into the outlook.
 When I came into the office the next day and started a outlook to my amazement and every
 day since it gets rid of 99.9% of spam, Cloudmark's been around a long time.
 We've actually talked about it.
 I remember talking about it on the screen savers years ago.
 He points out the software is based on a community of users who assist in identifying spam from
 which Cloudmark ranks the users and collects the data to filter out the spam.
 In other words, a community is working to find and delete spam and since it's a community,
 the integrity of the spam filtering is tremendous.
 Have you heard of this product?
 What are your thoughts and concerns?
 I put this in here, Leo, because I was hoping and assumed that you would know about Cloudmark.
 Cloudmark's excellent, highly recommended.
 The way it works is you actually are sending your mail through their servers.
 You change the MX record and they make it crazy to do.
 The mail goes through their servers.
 That's what I use.
 I use a very similar service called MailRoute.
 The point is really that a professionally managed anti-spam service that is kept up to
 date constantly worked on is going to do a better job than anything on your desktop.
 For example, my own experience with Google Mail is that because they've got the same
 sort of centralized view into the mail that's coming in, they're able to do a fantastic job
 of spam.
 Every so often, if your Google Mail box gets a piece of spam, you select it and say report
 as spam and then of course tells Google for everybody else's benefit that this is spam
 that exists with this particular profile.
 Ironically, I agree, it's the same concept.
 I've had less good results with Google.
 I get spam every day in my Google Mail box, but it mostly will report very good results
 with Google.
 I'm not sure what's going on with mine.
 It works well for me although I don't have a widely public email address either.
 You're not a target.
 The takeaway from this, I think, is that if we've got people who always cloud mark free,
 it is not.
 Actually, there's one that works very similarly that is, in my opinion, just a little bit
 better.
 It's a little more up-to-date.
 It's called only mymail.com.
 Same idea.
 Collaborative filtering.
 Moving off on cloud mark, cloud mark's very good.
 I think cloud mark's been around for quite some time.
 Only my email.com I think is 10 bucks a month, I'm not sure.
 As I said, I use a commercial solution called mail route, but these all work the same way.
 I've always said the best way to get rid of spam is to not have it arrive in the first
 place.
 The problem with a desktop anti-spam program is you're still downloading all that spam
 from your servers.
 These actually filter it out before it gets to your inbox on the ISP.
 As a result, you're downloading a lot less mail.
 In my case, a million messages a month less.
 There is also the positive side effect that as we know, some of this shotgun sent email
 can be hazardous to your health.
 It's not just hazardous to your mental health.
 That's been well-established, but it can actually be hazardous to your system, so not letting
 it get near your computer is just generally good for security.
 Well, all these services will get a lot of the phishing scams.
 They will get a lot of the viruses, they'll actually strip viruses out.
 Yes, you're absolutely right.
 These are security solutions as well as spam solutions.
 Yeah.
 Cloud Mark is good.
 I highly recommend it.
 I haven't seen how much it costs lately.
 Kevin Rose was a huge cloud mark fan.
 The good service.
 We are using the Gmail handle of Diasomet, which is a risky handle.
 Isn't that a drug?
 In Warrington UK is not impressed by Windows, UAC.
 We talked about it last episode, the user access control.
 Despite your price for UAC in episode 83 of a security now, I still see the problem of
 security will be down to user behavior, and he's absolutely right.
 Of course it is.
 Users can screw up anything, can't they?
 As far as I'm aware, the UAC implementation by Microsoft does not require a password, unlike
 Linux or OS 10.
 He's wrong there.
 Yep.
 The problem I see with this is partly the way in which Microsoft has implemented this,
 requiring the entry of a password is far more secure, and partly the mentality of a lot of
 Windows users.
 I do not mean to be condescending to Windows users, but for your average Joe, if the common
 response to these UAC dialog boxes is to click OK, then it will become a reflex action.
 I do agree with him on that.
 Yep.
 Because this is the action that will get rid of the UAC dialog box, the quickest and therefore
 any security offers will be quickly eroded by both the Marc Grissinovich, Obsis internals
 and Jim Olshin of Microsoft State.
 This is a design feature, which is a trade-off, as always.
 It's always a trade-off between security and convenience.
 Unfortunately, nobody ever said security be convenient.
 However, security is a necessity, and as long as Microsoft puts convenience before security,
 it'll be flawed.
 Algin says if security is not convenient, people would not use it.
 I say, don't give people the choice whether or not they realize it.
 It's there for their own good.
 I know this sounds a little totalitarian, but a compromised Windows machine can affect
 all of us with spam bots and so forth.
 That's a good point.
 It's not just the machine's owner.
 As Leo often stresses, change in user behavior is the biggest security feature you can have,
 but humans are creatures of habit.
 And sometimes it takes more than friendly advice to instigate change.
 It's interesting that you put this in because Kaspersky, who makes an antivirus software effect,
 one of the best antivirus software's out there, recently quoted by ZDNet saying that most
 users are just going to get so annoyed by UAC, they'll disable it.
 And Kaspersky says that without UAC, VIST is less secure.
 And Kaspersky's chief executive, now remember he's got a little axe to grind here, said,
 actually she said Natalia Kaspersky said that her analysts have already found five ways
 in which malware could bypass UAC.
 Well, you know, my comment to this, of course, and I put this in here just because I wanted
 to, I mean, it's a very valid point.
 He was a little mistaken saying that you didn't need to enter a password unlike the
 Mac.
 In fact, on one of my Macs, I don't have to enter a password.
 And in the case of Windows Vista, it's the idea is if you didn't log on with the authorizing
 credentials, that is if you're not logged on as a, as an administrator, in which case,
 if you are logged on as administrator, you simply have to say, okay, if you're logged
 on as a so-called standard user, then you do need to provide administrative credentials.
 Of course, that just makes the burden of the UAC pop-ups more annoying rather than less.
 So, so I mean, it's Microsoft is stuck because they are as we've said before, and as I talked
 a lot about last week, they really are trying to make the system more secure, but they really
 are fighting the corner that they're painted into because anything they do that really
 changes the system's behavior to increase security will break things.
 So this is, you know, it's a, it's an evil, unhappy compromise, but it's, it's arguably
 better than allowing changes to the system with no oversight at all.
 It's, it's not perfect.
 They recognize everyone recognizes that it's a tradeoff.
 It's going to be really interesting to see how it plays out.
 We really won't know probably for six months and as we, as we get more sort of feedback
 from people, was this useful or is it just, you know, annoying?
 It does seem to bug you more than the Macintosh does.
 I've gotten used to it on the Macintosh in both my Mac and my Windows machine.
 I am frequently asked for an admin password.
 You don't get asked if you're running as admin on Mac.
 On the Mac, isn't it only when you install something?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Notify system files.
 Yes.
 Okay.
 And so on Windows, it certainly is more pervasive than that.
 There are many other things that will cause that to pop up because, of course, Microsoft
 is reacting to, in every case, to specific malware that has abused something in Windows
 and they're like saying, wait a minute, if that happens again, let's make sure this is
 the user doing it.
 So I do think that UAC is more, I don't know if I would say more granular, certainly more
 in the way in Windows, due to Windows own history of having so many exploited problems
 in the past.
 Yeah.
 Look, there's no perfect solution.
 Those are going to be able to get back anything that a company does.
 That's the problem.
 There's no way you can force a user to be secure.
 Yeah.
 Well, now I have to go and research what Casper C is saying because that's a little scary,
 although they bring up that same old boondoggle about why doesn't Microsoft let us modify
 the kernel?
 They say they need to, they, the patch guard hinders their ability.
 I'll send you the link to this article in ZDNet.
 Yeah.
 Cool.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Jonathan Lachman of Kansas City, Missouri has an oft asked question.
 I've been reading your site for years.
 I presume he's talking about GRC.com.
 I'm an IT professional and you've taught me a lot.
 I know he's talking now about GRC.com.
 I've also been listening to your podcast since numero Uno.
 However, when setting up my new iPod, only the last 14 show up and iTunes, do you have
 any idea why they don't all show up?
 I can download them separately, but they aren't as nicely formatted and presented on
 the iPod and that's for you, Leo, I take that one, it's, it's here for you because it,
 but it really is.
 I hear this all the time.
 So I thought we ought to just tell people what's going on and you're, you're Mr. Podman.
 It's, it's, and I make the decision, by the way, not to include all of them with 84 episodes.
 It would be the RSS file would be several hundred K. The way RSS works, it's really
 never been intended to have a complete listing.
 It's, it's, it's, if you look at the RSS feed from any web page, it doesn't show every article
 that's ever been on that web page.
 It shows the most recent articles and every RSS person who creates an RSS feed has to
 make a decision.
 Well, how many articles are you going to include?
 I know the problem.
 The problem is we've deliberately designed a podcast that laid down some really significant
 important historical stuff rather than just being sort of a news sort of thing.
 And so that's created a strong desire on, on, in the part of people who discover security
 now to like go back and get them all.
 I don't, I don't mind them, but the feed is not the place to find them.
 Now I make a point of my general policy is, is the most recent 20 episodes of every podcast.
 That's five months back.
 And it's really balancing the size of the RSS feed.
 Remember that every time some aggregator, including iTunes, requests the feed, it's downloaded
 from our site.
 And that can be quite a bit that's several terabytes a month of downloads.
 They're trying to manage that as well.
 So what I do, if you go to twit.tv, in fact, just go to twit.tv/sn for security now, and
 every episode's there.
 It's on the web.
 It's not that it's not available to you.
 It's just that it doesn't show up in the RSS feed.
 And I think the reason people are confused is I, it's kind of Apple, I blame Apple a little
 bit because it's not clear that what you're looking at is an RSS feed.
 It looks like you're looking at a directory of all episodes.
 And that's not the case.
 It's the case from our podcast or anybody's podcast.
 You can't do that.
 So when he says I, he says I could download them separately.
 So we obviously knows about that, but they aren't as nicely formatted and presented on
 the iPod.
 That shouldn't be the case.
 It should be exactly the same.
 It may be something that iTunes does differently with a podcast.
 It probably is when it sees it as a podcast in the feed.
 Right to Apple.
 Don't complain to me.
 That's the way that's the way iTunes has decided.
 iTunes does some very strange things.
 It renames the files.
 It does some very strange things.
 But all of them are there.
 And frankly, you can listen to them all on the web page.
 It's the other thing we've done is we've made it possible to just click on an episode
 number.
 In fact, you can go by episode number.
 Just go to twit.tv/SN and the number.
 So if we say, oh, episode 81, remember that, you can go to twit.tv/SN 81.
 You'll go right there.
 And there's a player on that page.
 So I think that you can always frankly find it.
 It's not, it's not that you can't find it.
 I get this periodically, you know, with a daily giz was we've done 270 episodes.
 Oh, yeah.
 There's no, there's no way I'm going to put 270 episodes in the feed.
 I mean, it's just.
 I'm not going to be catching up with that number any time soon.
 Well, and nobody would probably want to listen all 270, although we do hear from time to
 time people doing that.
 You're absolutely right.
 Security.
 Now it's more, it's more natural.
 You'd want to go back and listen.
 It's really the difference between what a feed is and what iTunes is presenting to you.
 It really does look like iTunes is saying, Hey, here's all the episodes.
 They're not.
 They're just saying what's in the current feed.
 Moving right along.
 I'm glad actually you put that in because we get, I get that question a lot and I just,
 I can't put in a, I used to, I, I used to, I, for the first, you remember for the first,
 maybe year I put them all in there and the file size was well over a hundred K was getting
 too big.
 Well, and frankly, that would, it would encourage people.
 I mean, okay, the way things are now, if people like the podcast, they've got to deliberately
 go back and yank these files off the server, which creates a nice trade off.
 If in fact, the entire feed contained all the files, somebody just experimentally joining
 would suddenly find themselves downloading 84 monster files.
 That's like, stop.
 I don't want all this.
 iTunes is smart enough to say you, you just want the most recent one, right?
 But you could say, no, I always want to get all the files and that really would be a nightmare.
 But if you look at any podcast, if there, I don't know of anyone that actually puts
 all of their shows, if they have any number of shows, you just can't.
 Doug Smith of Albany, New York is busy catching up on back episodes after being hooked by
 the honey monkeys.
 Well, that's, was episode one, it was really was, I couldn't believe it was so long away
 back.
 He asks, here's my question.
 In your show about wireless security, when talking about brute force attacks, you mentioned
 a hacker could steal off with a sample of encrypted traffic and subjected to the attack.
 You made it clear that as long as you have a good password, you're probably safe from
 this kind of attack.
 But my curiosity is this, how does a hacker know when they've cracked the encryption?
 It would seem to me that they'd need to attempt to try to access your network with what they
 believe to be the key before they could really know.
 Doesn't that make the idea of them doing it from the comfort of their own secret layer?
 Somewhat impractical.
 I love the question because it's something I never addressed.
 It never occurred to me because I know the answer to make it explicit.
 And I also like it because we've much more recently seen exactly this happening with
 the cracks of, of protected content under Vista and HD DVDs where, where they were finding
 keys and they remember the idea was that the key would be somewhere in memory.
 And so they would scan through memory, taking candidate keys and testing them against known
 encrypted content to see if it decrypted it exactly in an analogous fashion.
 We talked about, and this is specifically the WPA.
 Of course, there were, you know, innumerable ways of cracking WEP, WEP, the first generation
 bad encryption for Wi-Fi.
 The only known vulnerability for WPA is exactly what, what Doug cites here.
 And that's sort of the offline brute force attack.
 That's just because it's so hard to do that you need a lot of time to do it.
 Is that why?
 Well, it's because, yes, there is no obvious attack.
 So the, the, the attack that is available is that you, you, you capture some encrypted
 traffic and then you do a brute force attack, exactly, exactly using dictionary attack,
 using alphabetic attack, you using, you know, basically, I mean, maybe as much as going A
 B than ABC and so forth, so if you have a 60, that's why you keep pushing for a 64 character
 ran totally random key.
 And as we know that if you, so if you go to grc.com/passwords, you get exactly that over
 secure link as, as raw material for using a key, because it's just going to be garbage.
 And there's just, that's going to maximize the, the chance to the point where it's just
 not feasible of doing that kind of attack.
 Anyway, to answer this question and the exact analogous question in the case of high def decoding,
 it's always the case, at least in both of these cases, it wouldn't necessarily have to
 be the case, but in both of these cases, when you get a decrypted blob, whether it's a chunk
 of video that's been encoded in mpeg format, like, you know, a frame of mpeg or a frame
 of radio data, a frame of Wi-Fi, suddenly the format becomes crystal clear.
 That is, all of these things, for example, a Wi-Fi packet has a bunch of header information
 at the beginning before it's got whatever the content might be, whether it's ASCII or
 binary.
 And arguably, that just looks like noise to, to a casual observer, but the headers have
 a rigorous set format that is very easy to recognize.
 So the automated software is looking at the beginning of the packet, or in the case of
 Wi-Fi, or the beginning of a frame of mpeg data, and you know if it looks like complete
 nonsense, or if suddenly it all makes sense to software that knows sort of heuristically
 what the front of, of that, whatever it is you're trying to decrypt should actually look
 like.
 It'll pop into focus.
 It'll be obvious.
 It'll just jump at you.
 Everything in the focus is a great analogy, because literally, if you've got the key wrong,
 it is completely random.
 As we know, encrypting and decrypting with the wrong key results in absolutely nothing
 coming back.
 It's just noise.
 So if suddenly you get structure at the beginning of whatever it is you're trying to decrypt,
 you know you got the right key.
 Yes, absolutely.
 Stan Berkowitz writing from Somewhere in Pennsylvania says, "In my work, I set up PCs for people."
 You should call nerds on site.
 A week after I installed - free plug - a week after I installed a Vista machine for someone
 they told me they don't even pay attention to the UAC pop-up anymore, okay.
 Proof positive, and they hate Vista for it.
 All this brought me to thinking UAC might bring spyware infestations from 25 percent
 of PCs to 15 to 20 percent, you know, it bring it down, but it's not going to be a whole
 lot more.
 The normal user that doesn't pay attention to the window is still going to get infected.
 Do you agree with this statement?
 It might be an interesting side note, and they will always find a way around it probably
 in a week.
 Well, we have addressed it, haven't we, in earlier questions?
 Yeah, exactly.
 And I just - I like this because it - as I said, we're going to have to see how the world
 reacts to this over time.
 This is an experiment that Microsoft is doing clearly saying to, you know, my mom and, you
 know, people who are not computer savvy, you know, popping this thing up and saying, you
 know, something is trying to mess around with your computer, is this you?
 I mean, even that question, you could argue, is somewhat murky.
 It's like - it's very much like the problem that the personal software firewall vendors
 had when their software was popping up a dialogue saying something wants to talk to the internet,
 it's this, do you want to allow it or not?
 I mean, the great Achilles heel of that was people not knowing whether to say yes or
 no.
 That was that happened, that was very clear that people eventually either turned it off
 or gave up and just said, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay.
 Or as I - as happened in the case of personal firewalls, once all - they had authorized
 all of their properly formatted programs, you know, properly intended to be talking to
 the internet software to do so and - it did calm down, yeah.
 And then it really did calm down.
 See, that won't happen with UAC.
 It's going to annoy you every single time.
 It will never learn.
 I'm afraid that might be the case.
 Yeah.
 So it's not like it's going to ever calm down.
 What you see now, you're going to see in five years because it's going to warn you every
 single time you install a program or every single time you modify the desktop fileer.
 And the - you know, it doesn't bother me.
 I know in a way - now I don't use Vista day in day out, so maybe it would if I used it
 full time, I don't.
 But I use it a lot and it doesn't bother me.
 I just feel in a way I just say, hmm, good, it's protecting me.
 Well, yes.
 And you know, from a power user standpoint, which certainly the two of us are and many
 of our power - many, if not all of our listeners probably are to a much greater degree than
 you know, our moms, for me, it's like - I come to expect it.
 It's like, okay.
 Yeah.
 You know, I just did something, yes, yes, I - you know, this is me.
 I mean, so for someone who understands what it's doing, it isn't that interruptive because
 like you Leo, I recognize, ah, the system is there, I would want to know - of course,
 we're the ones who need the least protection.
 Exactly.
 Yeah.
 We're the ones who could turn it off safely.
 Yep.
 Alex in Kentucky needs to accept incoming connections from SSH on port 22.
 SSH is the secure terminal.
 Shell.
 Yeah, secure shell.
 He writes, I have an SSH server set up on my computer so I can create a secure tunnel
 for tight VNC.
 I currently have the server set up to use port 22.
 I use a 12-character password of random number and letters.
 I'm having trouble changing from the default port.
 Is there any significant security problem from using the default port?
 He - 21, I think, is the default for SSH, isn't it?
 No, that's telnet.
 Oh, that's telnet.
 Okay.
 So 22 is the normal port.
 Correct.
 He wants to use a non-default port.
 Well he'd like to change to a non-default port, but for whatever reason, he says he's
 having trouble changing it from the default port.
 So he is on 22, the default port for SSH, and he's wondering, is this a problem?
 You know, he says, is there any significant security problem from using the default port?
 Well, I'll tell you.
 When I look at my server logs, I see people try to log in on port 22 all the time.
 Well exactly now, but you don't have a server running on 22, right?
 I do.
 This is on my website.
 I use SSH to log into my website, of course, because it's secure, and we use the default
 port.
 The point is if you have a good secure password, these Chinese hackers are going to be working
 on it, but it's going to - but it's not like you can do a mass brute force attack.
 You get three tries and you're - and then you have to start over again.
 Right.
 So here's the issue, I think.
 He's advertising.
 This system is advertising that it's got SSH running that is an SSH server listening
 and accepting incoming connections, because he wants to be able to be outside of his own
 network and be able to connect in, give his credentials, which is secure over secure shell.
 It was well designed.
 So you end up with, you know, good, non-eaves, dropable security, but the problem is he's
 saying, okay, when people don't know my password and he's, you know, he knows enough to have
 a, you know, a really bizarre 12-character password, am I in any danger?
 If his password is good, as you say Leo, it's very burdensome for someone to crack it.
 On the other hand, it's still there.
 It's accepting connections, and so I would say he doesn't have a security problem, he
 just sort of has an annoyance problem.
 For example, he would be prone not to log what's going on on his router or his server
 because it's going to be just as exactly as you said in the case of your logging, it's
 going to fill up with people who go, oh, let's see if he's got a simple password that's
 in a dictionary.
 So he'll be prone to being attacked on 22, not that he would be vulnerable because he's
 the smart thing, but people are going to be hooking up to him and trying, and that would
 annoy me if I was looking at my log and just seeing people hooking up to my point.
 So it's a little scary, but that's, you know, I mean, when you run a web server, you have
 stuff like that.
 I mean, they're always trying to get in an, you know, and they're trying to get in other
 services too.
 I mean, they're always trying to do that.
 But I would, what I would suggest is if he's behind a router and he's mapped port 22 through,
 some routers allow you to map a different incoming port on the outside to a port on the
 inside.
 It may be that his, that his SSH server running on his system doesn't like to change off of
 port 22.
 If he's done a route.
 That's not the case.
 I don't know of any SSH server that won't let you easily do that.
 I'm not sure.
 Exactly.
 And I don't know what his problem is.
 But anyway, I guess, I guess Alex, if you're listening to this, and I hope you are, not
 only for the benefit of all of our other listeners, but, but for you, you know, make up your
 own mind.
 I wouldn't say you're under a great security risk, but it would bug me if I had just random
 strangers all over the globe who I don't know hooking up to my port 22 and giving it a,
 giving it a try.
 Well, when we were talking about Chinese hackers in the other episode, that's, that's what they're
 doing there.
 And I can tell I look at the IP address.
 It's from China.
 Yeah.
 I have strong passwords on there.
 I don't think a brute force attack because you can't, it's not like you can run a program
 that will run high speed, high speed.
 It's exactly slow pro.
 It has to be done by hand, essentially.
 On the other hand, it's automated and it's happening day and night unless you do something
 to prevent it.
 That's true.
 I guess if I saw a lot of activity, I might change ports.
 Well, and it would also be a matter of the value.
 You can imagine that if this was a DoD IP or, you know, something really, you know, within
 dot gov, that's probably much more prone to somebody methodically just saying, well,
 we don't care how long it takes.
 Maybe we'll get lucky one of these days, whereas this guy, you know, he's just some
 random IP and Cox or wherever that, you know, doesn't clearly have that much value.
 The other, the other point is that even if you move it to a nonstandard port, these guys
 test all ports.
 So they'll test all ports for a SSH response until they find your port.
 So it's, if they're really determined to hack at you, they're going to hack at you.
 Well, and in fact, it may not be that anyone would even bother doing a brute force.
 There have been historically known security vulnerabilities in SSH.
 So it could be somebody looking for vulnerable servers, which Alex probably doesn't have.
 So it's just, as you exactly as you say, Leo, someone scanning through IPs on port on 22,
 hoping to take advantage of an insecure secure shell server.
 So they'll hook up, they'll try their little hack to see if they can, you know, bust through
 some buffer overrun in the server and if not, they go away.
 Right, right.
 You know, how hard you make your system, how hardened you make it is up to you.
 And you're right.
 It depends on the value of what you're protecting.
 Mike Fatore, listening and writing in Toronto writes on a number of occasions in the past
 few months, Stephen has mentioned somewhat parenthetically that IP addresses cannot be
 spoofed because of the three way handshaking involved with setting up a TCP connection.
 We recently had a Cisco firewall expert, do some fire wall expert, do some consulting
 for us.
 I asked him about IP spoofing and he said it was all too really attempted to explain
 how it's done, but we were interrupted before he completed his explanation.
 So is I put IP spoofing real or are you and he talking about different types of spoofing?
 Well, I'm sorry that this guy was interrupted because I'd love to hear from a Cisco firewall
 expert how IP spoofing is all too real.
 He's probably talking about raw sockets.
 Well, yes, he had to have been talking about something else.
 It's absolutely the case that again, we've talked about this extensively in the past,
 you know, on those podcasts that are not available on the for easy download.
 By the way, if you subscribe and iTunes from now on, it doesn't delete old forms of the
 podcast. So from everything from now on, we'll be in your iTunes directory.
 And that's exactly how it was intended operate, right? Right. So anyway, anyway, the idea
 is packets are just little blobs of data moving across the internet. The only thing
 that most software looks at is the so called destination IP. The source IP is also there,
 always there, every IP that is every internet protocol packet has that right up at the very
 front. The destination IP and the source IP, the destination IP is where that packet is
 going. In theory, the source IP is the IP of the source of that packet, which is where
 it came from. But nothing validates that as packets move across the internet. So anybody
 who wants to emit a packet can pretty much make up any source IP that they want to drop
 it on the net and off it goes. So yes, that's spoofed. But you can't have a conversation
 if you do. Yes. And that's exactly my point. That's why when I specifically talk about
 the three way handshake that is that sets up a TCP connection, the beauty of the security
 of that is that each end requires a round trip. The reason it takes three packets is
 that the, the initiator sends a sin packet, a synchronized packet. The receiver sends
 a sin, which acknowledges the receipt of the sin and contains its own synchronization to
 which the, the first party sends a final back back to acknowledge the sing the, the sin,
 the synchronization from the second party. So those three packets give each end a round
 trip. The only way each end can get a round trip is if both the, the, is if all packets
 have the correct source IP and destination IP. So it is that, that TCP handshake prevents
 spoofing. Now things that don't prevent it are, for example, pings, which can just be
 sent out to any random IP you want. Well, or if you're a hacker who doesn't care about
 any, with a return response, as in a sin flood, you can spoof the, the originating IP because
 you don't having a conversation, you're just flooding. Exactly. Exactly. All right. I'm
 going to give you a hypothetical. How about in the man in the middle attack? Couldn't a
 man in the middle modify the, the return IP address? He knows what the real return is.
 Yes, absolutely. In fact, that's what a, a man in the middle attack would do is, is he
 would grab the packet on its way to the other party and, and change the source IP to his
 own so that then the packet goes off to the other party. The other party responds back
 to him thinking that it's the first party. He then changes the, the source of that packet
 as he forwards it back to the first party to his own, basically knitting himself into
 the middle of a conversation. And by the way, that's exactly what proxies do. Proxies are
 man in the middle of TCP connections. I guess they are. So, in that sense, certainly it
 is possible to spoof IP addresses. It's just not, it's possible to spoof an IP address
 in a real conversation. That's all. Right. And I, and we're normally talking about something
 where you've got an encrypted TCP connection, which, if things are done properly, even prevents
 a man in the middle, i.e. a proxying of that connection. Right. Right. David Barnes from
 Basilden asks, what can we as users do about the continuing spread of excessive Java and
 other client-side scripting use? I'm just going to have to correct him here. There's
 Java and there's JavaScript. It's, it's not your fault. It's the people at, at Netscape
 who decided, oh, we'll call our language JavaScript and confuse everybody. And you know, Leo,
 it has, it doesn't even, it's got no connection to Java. It's not even, doesn't look the same.
 It's a made-up language completely separate. Well, it was original. I can't remember the
 original name, but it wasn't JavaScript. It was purely a marketing thing. Well, hey, Java's
 hot right now. Anyway, so he says, Java, I'm going to read it as JavaScript. I recently
 complained to eBay that the pages were not displaying correctly with scripting off. Well,
 as you might imagine, I was told I had to use scripting on eBay a sort of tough. We don't
 care a lumped attitude. I then had a quick look at the Java script, and include files
 for a normal search results page. It totaled up over 300. Kane, I'm under the page's bloody
 slow to load with scripting enabled. What else can us lowly sys admins and our users
 do? I feel like I'm being held hostage and dictated to in how I use the internet.
 This is where I put the needle down on my broken record. You know, and I just say, mark
 of my words. This is going to be a problem, not just the size of scripting, but it's
 going to, it's going to be a constant problem. And you know, I wanted to answer David's question
 because of course I'm sympathetic to it. As you know, I surf with scripting disabled
 much as he obviously does. In my case, I've seen the same thing with eBay. So I've, you
 know, using IE's sort of dynamic scripting enablement system, which is using these zones
 of trust that IE has. eBay is in my trusted zone. So scripting is enabled automatically
 when I go to eBay, but not by default when I surf to random sites that I don't trust.
 So so basically he's talking about sort of the tyranny of of web scripting. And I could
 not be more sympathetic to him. I mean, I'm, I absolutely agree. I think it's, it's sad
 that it is that we have these problems. Of course, now I understand you take and as you've
 said recently, when we talked about this, sort of, you know, your site is require scripting
 like eBay does almost all sorts to you. It's just it's you can't do Ajax. You can't do
 a lot of user interface stuff. You can't validate forms. I mean, there's it just goes on and
 on and on and sort of all of that web 2.0 stuff that you never talking about. Yeah. Yeah.
 Now you can, if you really work hard, do a lot of it as you've proven with your CSS without
 any JavaScript, but it's a lot of work. And there is stuff you just absolutely have to
 use JavaScript. Now what I would say is, yeah, there are JavaScript exploits, but they are
 few and far between. I don't, I don't think JavaScript is as dangerous as, as you seem
 to. I mean, it's just, I, I'm not complaining about the danger. I'm just saying philosophically,
 it's bad to load code from random websites. You don't know, but that's what the web is.
 That's what it's what it's, it's what it's become. It isn't, I mean, it wasn't there
 originally, but if you just want static text pages, the web is fine except them, except
 that my site runs perfectly with no scripting. My e-commerce system just looks like it came
 from 1989. Well, it did. I mean, this is, this is the trade off more and more we want web-based
 applications. You're going to have to load code. So you're right. In my opinion, what
 you should do, I mean, look at Java as opposed to JavaScript, which is sandboxed. There have
 been some exploits, but nothing of any severity, you could make JavaScript much more secure.
 Now is Gmail, JavaScript or Java? Java script. Okay. Pretty much I, if, well, you know, because
 you turn off scripting, almost every site uses scripting, even if just for a rollover.
 Now that's somewhat, some of that's laziness, I suppose you could do it in other ways, but
 it's pretty much accepted. And as we get to a richer and richer web experience, it's,
 it's going to be more and more, not less and less with flash. I mean, flash is scripting.
 So David and I are losing the battle. You're going to lose this battle. Yeah. So I think
 the real trick is to really insist that companies that make these languages sandbox them, make
 them bulletproof. Well, and it's one of the things that we briefly touched on last week
 with UAC. Microsoft has this notion, this concept, which is still in its infancy. But
 the idea is that IE or other browsers and email clients, that things that are chatty
 on the net, things that are, they're fundamentally less trustworthy. They will be running with,
 with less interconnection privileges in Vista, which doesn't give them the access to the desktop
 and to other Windows resources that more trustworthy applications have. I think that's where we're
 going. Absolutely. And I think that's a perfectly sensible way to deal with it. And it's, we've
 talked in fact about like running sandboxes and sandboxing IE or, or virtual machines,
 you're using virtual machines to create an environment of containment around these dangerous
 things. Java's been around a long time. And, and, and no, you've received very few complaints
 about its security. Java script, you know, I'm talking about Java. Java sandbox. Oh, oh,
 oh, yes. Yes. Java script obviously has issues. The biggest issue is most, this most recent
 one where you could, if somebody hasn't changed their default password on their router, you
 can go into the router. And I think that that's a whole that can be fixed. I mean, I think
 that just should be fixed. But it's a perfect example of what I'm saying too. I mean, yes,
 I know it can be fixed, but it's a perfect example. You know, I'm running my system is
 running script that I didn't really want it to run. No, I know. But that's the web. I
 mean, the question is, do you want the web to be static text? Or do you want it to be
 web services? Do you want applications to run? And I think people want applications to run.
 Yeah, you're right. A listener named John from Downers Grove, Illinois wonders, I followed
 all the Wi-Fi lockdown instructions from your recent episode 81 notes. But now I see two
 new networks free to guest and NRT airport, both unsecured computer to computer networks,
 but they're not real network. Stumbler doesn't see him. Any explanation from the guru department?
 I guess that's us. I don't know. Yes. What what I never made this explicit, but that preferred
 networks list that you can see in the dialog box in the samples. There are two different
 lists that you encounter when you're using most Wi-Fi interconnection helpers and certainly
 Microsoft's default one. There's that list of all networks that your computer can currently
 see. And then there's that different list called preferred networks. And those are networks
 it has seen in the past. So those you can and that's what he's talking about here. He's
 got everything locked down, but he's seeing free to guest and NRT airport in his preferred
 networks list. All you have to do is highlight them and delete them, highlight the next one
 and delete it and they will go away. And now that you've got this thing locked down, they
 won't come back. So this may happen from time to time that new networks enter that list.
 It could because networks that you do connect to will be added to that list. I see because
 because windows thinks it's doing the right thing by trying to reconnect to things you
 have explicitly connected to in the past. The good news is you at least now with all these
 updates in place, even the one today that we talked about today, you at least won't be
 broadcasting that you ever talk to those networks in the past.
 And now our last question, Ryan Skeleton in Portland, Oregon has a different problem
 with windows UAC. I'm a serious computer user with multiple disabilities and I must use assistive
 technology to enter text into all computer applications. My concern is that the UAC secure
 desktop may prevent my assistive technology application from entering text into the authentication
 fields. This is because it has does that weird screen thing. I understand this is a trade
 off between your ability and security. My case and I suspect many other disabled users out there,
 this usability is not merely a convenience, but a necessity is there a way for an administrative
 user to specify that a particular program should be allowed to run in a protected desktop environment.
 If not, maybe I won't be able to use Vista. Well, we never talked about and this is a
 great question because we never talked about disabling all of this UAC nonsense. I certainly
 don't want to be promoting it, but this seemed a very valid place where a serious computer
 user is saying, I just for whatever reason, I can't have these pop ups. Now backing off
 from that for a moment, I would imagine that any updates to his assistive technology would
 be updated to deal with this and that there are doubtless ways of handling it. I'm assuming
 that. On the other hand, you could imagine that if there were ways of handling it, that
 would be back doors that would allow hacker technology to do the same thing. What I do
 know is that many power users are familiar with utilities like Tweak UI. Tweak UI basically
 allows you to change even more settings than you can from the normal desktop. Well, there's
 a whole another huge array of settings that are known as Windows policies. There's group
 policy editor. Those are things. It's phenomenal how many other Tweaks there are and it turns
 out that being sensitive to what changes Microsoft was introducing with Windows Vista, there
 are a whole bunch of new policy settings that allow you to completely remove UAC. And I believe
 you don't have to go that far. You can even just you can just turn off secure desktop,
 but still have UAC. Correct. And that's probably going to solve his problem. I mean, he could
 certainly turn off UAC, but but you can keep UAC without getting rid of. I mean, you can
 get rid of that blacked out desktop without getting rid of UAC. Yes. And and if you did
 that, then you're right that then the assistive technology would no longer be cut off from
 the secure desktop environment that is deliberately putting a moat around itself in order to prevent
 it from being disabled. But I wanted to to first of all, to tell Ryan that that exists
 in Vista. So he could definitely use it if he needed to. And I wanted to point out for
 all of our listeners that there is highly granular granular control in the Windows policies.
 It's real. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, there's just a ton of stuff you can do. And again, sensitive
 to what Microsoft because Microsoft never wants to break anything. So sensitive to that, they
 said we're going to have an intrusive technology, but we're going to give you all kinds of control.
 In fact, there's even right up in the, in the standard log on profiles, not even down
 in, in the policy editing stuff that you're able as an administrator to just turn off the
 pop up completely, turn off that acknowledgement there with a single checkbox up in the regular
 user configuration dialogue. But there's much more you can do as well. So I wanted to make
 sure that our listeners knew that that was all buried down there in Vista for people
 who did want, for example, and Ryan may have to make that cord that that sort of change
 if, if UAC is really causing a problem. It isn't a, isn't a reason for abandoning Vista.
 I should point out, unfortunately, that the, all of these policies are available in a
 very easy to use the local security policy, very easy to use, you know, in Vista Ultimate
 and Vista Business. But if you're a home user, you have to go into the registry and
 modify a registry key. So they don't want home users to have that kind of capability,
 I guess, probably just as well. Yeah. I, you know, I have a good article here from howtogeek.com
 on that, that describes us in detail. So maybe I'll put that link up in the show notes there.
 Oh, cool. Yeah. It just talks exactly about how to do it and even has the key for registry
 editing, editing. Well, that wraps up a list of 12 great questions before we wrap up though.
 I do want to thank our friends at Astaro who have been sponsoring this podcast for a long
 time and have now are up for the entire year of 2007. Again, we really, that support makes
 such a difference to, to Steve and me. I mean, it really means that the show is working for
 them. And they work for you. Let me tell you version seven of the Astaro security gateway
 is out and amazing. I've talked about some of the features, the fact that now email encryption
 is, is centralized. So your, you know, users don't even have to know they're doing it.
 It's just automatic. You've got SSL VPN makes it very easy to use VPN. It clusters now.
 So it scales to us, you know, up to 10 Astaro units in one without installing and load balancing.
 It's just really remarkable. But the thing for the home user I think is great is they've
 now waived the license fee for the V7 package. So you when you download the free Astaro security
 gateway as a non commercial user, you get all of the subscriptions, including a star up
 to date, the anti spam, the antivirus that used to charge 79 euros for it. It's now free.
 I'll tell you if you are in business and you want the best appliance to protect yourself,
 you've got to check with the star up www dot A S T A R O dot com or call 877 the number four
 A S T A R O and you could schedule a free trial of the star of security gateway in your business.
 I use them and it's just, it's just fantastic. Wow. 12 questions, 12 answers and some really
 fascinating stuff too, I think. Yeah, I love these. I really did too. Yeah. Okay, because
 they they bring a diversity, lots of different things going on are, you know, it closes the
 loop with our users and our listeners. Yeah, it's just terrific. Well, Steve, we'll wrap
 this up and we'll be back next week for another episode of security now. Have a great week,
 Steve. We'll see you next time. Right. Oh, security.
