 "That casts you love from people you trust."
 "This is Twit."
 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by AOL Radio at aol.com/podcasting.
 This is Security Now with Steve Gibson, episode 87 for April 12, 2007, SQL Injection.
 Security Now is brought to you by Astarro, makers of the Astarro Security Gateway on the
 web at www.ASTARO.com.
 And by Nerds on Site, looking to grow your IT service business, find out how Nerds on
 Site can help visit, I want to be a nerd.com.
 Time to get secure, and you can never be too secure.
 He's the master of security, Steve Gibson, in his secure lair.
 You know, Leo, it's be of getting secure.
 We get so much great feedback from people who, even if they thought they were really
 security knowledgeable before, I mean, people who've been in IT all their lives, but they
 invariably say that even when we're discussing a subject that they feel pretty well versed
 in, you know, they'll still get a tidbit here and there, something that they haven't
 encountered before.
 Well, I don't think it's possible, even if you're a pro, you know this.
 Even if you do this all the time, the stuff's changed, it's hard to keep up.
 Well, yes.
 And in fact, I had a bunch of people wrote to me about the recent event which happened
 in the AACS area.
 Remember, we talked so much about that.
 You've probably heard that when DVD is having its keys revoked from it.
 The first example of when of key revocation, exactly.
 And then this we talked about is something that would, you know, certainly be possible
 to have done.
 Now, it's also the case that having a software program's keys revoked is far less onerous,
 for example, than having your Toshiba HDD-VD players keys revoked.
 That would be a big annoyance, needless to say.
 But still, this demonstrates that Hollywood, although it's taken them many months, you
 know, this of course all comes from the Mueslix 64 guy who started this.
 And it turns out that they've been continuing to do work on this in the Doom 9 forum.
 And there's now a utility developed by somebody else that basically dumps all the encryption
 keys from any disk that you insert in a PC with WinDVD.
 So they've like, as we expected, they've automated and polished this approach and made
 it so easy.
 And so finally, Hollywood is saying, okay, no more, we're revoking WinDVD's keys now.
 Now, does that mean that this technique doesn't work anymore?
 No, it's going to be a cat and mouse game.
 What's happened is the interview, the interview people who publish WinDVD, they've done some
 things to a next version of WinDVD, which existing WinDVD owners can upgrade to, to
 hopefully, or they're hoping anyway, thwart this kind of exploit.
 Maybe they're, you know, they're protecting it more, they're not leaving the keys out
 and open as usual.
 They're obscuring them in some fashion.
 But again, this is because the player has to have the ability to decrypt the content,
 and it's a fundamentally open platform under XP.
 This is going to be very hard for anyone to prevent.
 Now, as we've talked about Vista, has this notion of protected processes, and Microsoft
 has put a lot of energy into tightening Vista down in ways that would make this much more
 difficult.
 You just can't run a debugger on a Vista process, which is running in this protected
 process environment and dump its memory.
 So Microsoft is building walls around processes for this reason to keep this kind of easy
 exploitation from being, I mean, really so easy to do.
 So this is, they're calling this a mandatory update.
 What happens if you don't update?
 Well, if you, essentially, WinDVD has a set of encryption keys, which were given to it
 by the AACS Authority, those are going to be invalidated by new DVD content.
 So as you, for example, downstream, the newer published HD DVDs and Blu-ray DVDs, any of
 the technology using this AACS Next Generation DRM digital rights management for high definition
 content, they will know that the earlier versions of WinDVD are not safe because they have been
 reverse engineered.
 So that those things, that content simply will not play on the older WinDVD players.
 Older content might, it's not exactly clear how this is going to work.
 It is whether the download of the new version will automatically remove the keys from the
 older versions, whether you could still play an older disk, or whether ever once letting
 a new disk touch your system would leave a mark behind that prevented the older disks
 even from playing.
 I didn't realize that.
 So yeah, because that's the question is, does it make your existing stuff not working
 apparently?
 Certainly, it certainly could make your existing stuff not work on the existing player.
 So the idea is you need to upgrade your player.
 And I mean, this will be fun, sort of fun to watch from the sidelines because, you know,
 the Doom guys, they're not going to take this laying down.
 They're going to say, okay, roll our sleeves up a little bit further and we're going to
 do this again.
 I mean, if for no other reason, then to prove the point that what Hollywood is trying to
 do is, as we've said over and over is fundamentally impossible.
 Amazing, fascinating cat and mouse game going on.
 And for those who said, oh, don't worry, nobody will ever revoke keys.
 Well, now we know they will.
 Well, yes.
 In fact, again, though, I would say that this is the case for software players.
 It'll be very interesting.
 Yeah.
 Oh, well, consider.
 I mean, you know, that's the nightmare scenario that that hardware that people have purchased,
 which is not as easily upgradable as clicking on a link and getting a new version of it,
 that hardware people have purchased would then stop functioning because some instance
 of that hardware somewhere had been reverse engineered and hacked in a way that allowed
 people to use that hardware in order to decrypt high definition content.
 It's my suspicion that the movie industry isn't so worried about hardware since it's
 software that really gives you this piracy capability and as we see with this.
 Yes.
 A decryption.
 Yes.
 It's a little harder to make it, you know, so what if you crack a machine, right?
 Right.
 Ah, well, fascinating stuff.
 Also, I received some questions about why I never posted Episode 85A on the security
 now site.
 I didn't.
 I sort of thought it was, you know, that was our early last week.
 The announcement of the ANI cursor vulnerability disclosure, and I sort of thought of it as
 a little quickie, like, oh, just a little notice for people and besides, we'll be doing
 a regular podcast in three days anyway, but people were saying, hey, where is that?
 I need that.
 I want that.
 They want the complete set.
 Yes.
 So, so by the time anyone is hearing this, I will have added 85A to the security now page.
 So anybody who wrote to me saying, where is that?
 I want it.
 I need it.
 It's there now.
 And the last thing was, last week I referenced some errors that people were reporting, which
 have now been acknowledged by Microsoft and resolved.
 That was errors that occurred to me on one of my XP machines where I installed the ANI
 cursor vulnerability fix.
 When I rebooted the system, I got that it came up complaining the message said the system
 dlluser32.dll was relocated in memory.
 The application will not run properly.
 Well, it turns out it's because this machine, actually, this happened to be a cute little
 HP pavilion, a little mini pavilion that I have.
 It uses the real tech HD analog control, or sorry, audio control panel, and that was one
 of the things that conflicted.
 There was also a German tax calculator, something called tug zip and a CD tag program.
 Those all gave this patch a problem.
 So anyway, we're now talking after, here we are on the 12th, which is after the second
 Tuesday, Microsoft's normal patch cycle, which was this most recent Tuesday on April 10th.
 And during that, they updated this fix again to cure the problems that people were having.
 There was an interim hot fix that I was preparing to tell people about today, which did fix
 this problem for this week between the ANI release and the normal patch Tuesday, second
 Tuesday of the month release.
 But it turns out Microsoft incorporated that already into the, and there's like another
 three or four patches, depending on what version of Windows you have.
 So once again, you want to make sure you're patched, but anyone who was having this problem
 will have it cured here by our normal second Tuesday.
 Very interesting.
 Okay.
 And two last little quick points.
 Several people who have been liking and following along our discussion of ebooks and the Sony
 reader and so forth made mention of two really interesting sites that have literally 10
 of thousands of free ebooks.
 And I know you'll be interested in this, Leo.
 One is manybooks.net.
 Let me write this down.
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 Well, he's worked with the e-readers.
 The question.
 Yes.
 And in fact, the many books.net you select which format of like, I don't know, like 20 formats
 that you want the books in.
 And one of them is RTF.
 And in fact, the guy that wrote to me about many books.net has a Sony reader.
 He downloads these things in RTF format, then because they're in RTF, he then will like
 use Word or Wordpad to maybe enlarge the font or bold in it or whatever he wants to do.
 And then he says it works beautifully with the Sony reader because that was the problem
 we had with McCollum's books was that even though they're PDF, they didn't really seem
 to work very well.
 Well, yes.
 And I'm playing around with doing a book converter that'll just, you know, for a little quick
 project here to, just because I want to play with this stuff before I set it aside, which
 will create texts in native format that allows you, for example, to resize the text so that
 it's comfortable for you.
 And of course, RTF format allows you to do that.
 So anyway, I did look at many books.net and there's a bunch of stuff they have, they say
 at the moment, 16,380 completely free e-books.
 Mostly a public domain, I would imagine, right?
 Well, many classics, but some surprising books that looked like, there was one that was like
 published back in 1920 that was, it looked like a huge compendium of English idioms,
 you know, and, you know, common phrases and things.
 I thought, oh, that would just kind of be fun to have on there to browse around in.
 So there's that.
 And then there's also www.wowio.com.
 And that's another free e-book site.
 And I'll have links in our show notes to both of these for people who are, you know, driving
 while they're listening to this, but just become the e-book show.
 Not intentionally.
 There were some people who expressed some frustration that we were spending so much
 time on that.
 But, you know, it's something that you and I were both interested in and I've, I'm such
 an avid e-book reader that I wanted to share this for people who wanted to know about it.
 So, yeah, we don't want it to be the e-book show, but I didn't want to let people know
 what was going on.
 Yeah, we talk about we're interested in that that's sometimes more than security.
 Not usually.
 All right.
 Not mostly.
 Let me, before we get into the matter at hand, which is going to be SQL injection exploits,
 which are some serious, serious things.
 I think this might be the worst, it might be good time to talk about security and one
 of our sponsors, which is the Staro Security Gateway.
 If you're in business, you know about it.
 I hope you know about the Staro Security Gateway.
 These are great security appliances that make it very simple to secure your business in every
 way.
 I mean, best of read open source and commercial software doing everything from email security.
 That includes anti spam, anti phishing, virus protection for email, transparent encryption
 at the device.
 So the clients don't have to worry about it.
 You get web filtering, content filtering, anti virus, anti spyware, instant message
 appear to peer control and you get network protection like firewalls, remote access and
 VPN and intrusion protection.
 By the way, now SSL VPN and it scales as your environment, as your business gets bigger,
 it scales up to 10 security gateways without the need for additional load balancers.
 It's really a nice solution.
 You want a free trial of the Staro Security Gateway in your business call 877 the number
 for A S T A R O or visit them online at A S T A R O dot com and home users.
 You can try it free, including subscriptions to the anti spam and any virus stuff, absolutely
 free.
 So you put on any, you know, PC, you've got lying around.
 That's www dot A S T A R O dot com.
 Thanks for their support of security now.
 All right, Steve, what is, what are we talking about this week?
 Well, we're talking about what is arguably the, well, an incredibly big problem for what's
 happening with the web.
 In fact, as I described this to people, as I'm about to, you could almost imagine that
 the system could not have been deliberately designed to be worse than what we have.
 Isn't that nice?
 And again, it's sort of old technology, which is meeting new technology and having a real
 problem with it, essentially.
 So the old technology is this database and technology known as SQL or SQL, SQL is an
 acronym, of course, it stands for Structured Query Language.
 The good news about SQL is it was designed way pre internet pre web as a very powerful
 database technology.
 The thing that makes SQL so powerful is that it is inherently a language based data access
 system.
 So for example, you generate so called SQL or SQL queries, which are, for example, of
 the form select subject event, date and content from a certain database name like newsletters,
 where the newsletter ID is five, for example.
 So it's almost sort of an English-y sort of like query language, where you build up
 your query by putting together verbs and specifiers, variables, into this thing.
 When you're able to create tables, you can add items to tables, you can add columns.
 I mean, Mark Thompson, for example, our friend at AnalogX, he's just jumping up and down
 about how cool SQL is because, you know, as a programmer, he's very comfortable with the
 idea of a linguistic interface to data.
 And so, you know, SQL is extremely powerful because it just allows people to have data
 contained in these tables with records in columns.
 And rows are like records of the individual database records.
 I meant fields in rows, sorry.
 And the idea is that using this linguistic approach, you're able to make, you know, basically
 that's your entire interface to the database.
 And so when you issue these queries, the result comes back from the database with your answers,
 which is in the form of another table or additional information that you've asked for.
 So, SQL was there for a long time.
 And it made sense as we moved from sort of static pages that we talked about before into,
 you know, the web 2.0 dynamic pages, it made sense that, you know, if you had an online
 forum, for example, an online bulletin board system that as you're creating and accepting
 postings from people, you need to keep them somewhere.
 You need, they need to go into some sort of a database in order to be stored on the hard
 disc in a way that they're accessible and can be efficiently retrieved.
 And in fact, compared to prior databases, that's really the whole concept behind SQL
 is over a network, for example, where you don't have high-speed connection between the
 client and the server, the old-style databases would have required that you basically rifle
 through the data by sending it back and forth between you and the database if given if they
 were, for example, over a network on separate machines, the cool concept that made SQL so
 powerful is that instead of having sort of a dumb database where you basically have to
 go through the entire database moving it across the network, checking each record to see
 if it's what you want, instead you send the query across the network and now the database
 is smart and it interprets the query, applies it to the database that you've asked it to
 or in some cases even more than one database at the same time, and then gives you back
 the results.
 So SQL was really designed to be a sort of a trans-network solution for dealing with
 data in a very efficient fashion.
 There's a lot of different flavors of SQL, Microsoft makes a SQL server, many of us,
 for instance, on Twit we use the open source MySQL database which is becoming extremely
 popular and uses the same, basically, the same SQL syntax.
 SQL is a language and there's many different implementations of it.
 So last week we talked about cross-site scripting problems where because the user's browser was
 accepting scripting that appeared to be from a trusted server, there were ways to inject
 that scripting into the user's browser to cause, you know, all kinds of nefarious things
 to happen.
 Those were, had jumped onto this as a way of creating havoc and leveraging this insecurity
 for their own purposes.
 It was the same idea, I guess, as any place where you have a field that you can overrun
 the field with too much text and execute arbitrary code, you're doing the same thing
 with this SQL query.
 Well, actually it's very different than that.
 So what you were talking about was a buffer overrun and last week with cross-site scripting,
 the exploitation is essentially occurring on the user's end, on the user's browser.
 What's different about SQL injection is it's a means that allows hackers to inject queries
 into the remote server that the designers certainly never intended and it essentially,
 it leverages this expressive power, this linguistic power of SQL in ways that, just like with
 so many of these exploits, it's very simple to get the system working.
 It's just so hard to have it work in a way that can't be compromised, that is, just because
 of the nature of the power of SQL and the connection between the client's machine and
 the server creates these vulnerabilities.
 For example, say that you go to a site and it presents you with your username and password
 that you're supposed to fill in in order to get access to the site, it's a, maybe it's
 a high-value site that regular, normal, authorized users might pay a lot of money to have access
 to all the time.
 What happens is the web browser gives you a form where it says, "Please input your username
 and your password and you click OK."
 You've all seen that kind of front page on a site that we have to authenticate ourselves
 to.
 Well, behind the scenes, there will be, this username and password will be accepted from
 the user over on the server and then it will, the code running on the server needs to look
 up this username and password to see if it's valid.
 So for example, you might have a, you might have a table or database called logins, which
 is the username and password of everyone who can log in validly.
 So, it'll say, for example, in SQL, and this is sort of a simple construct, like I mentioned
 before, you might say select ID from logins, meaning the logins table, where you, where
 the username equals and then the username provided by the user and password equals the
 password provided by the user, meaning that the username and password would be columns
 or fields in this logins database.
 And so the idea is that the data provided by the user is plugged in to this SQL query,
 which is then given to the database to, to see whether this username and password are
 valid.
 Well, okay, get a load of this.
 So the, the, the phrase that we're looking at is, is where username equals the username
 provided and password equals the password provided.
 So obviously, both of those have to match.
 Okay.
 It turns out that if instead of just putting in a password in the password field, you've
 put in, I mean, like anything, noodles.
 And then, and then you said, or in the same field, you said noodles, or one equals one.
 Oh, yeah.
 Then you submit that.
 Okay.
 So now what happens is, instead of the password that the user provided, you've put in a bogus
 password, noodles.
 And then you've, you've essentially, you've extended the query by saying, or one equals
 one, which is true, which is always true, exactly.
 So you said, so only allow a login where username equals the username provided and password
 equals noodles, which, you know, it probably won't, or one equals one.
 That is to say by, you, essentially, the user of this login page is able to write their
 own SQL into the query in order to make it work.
 Wow.
 Very interesting.
 And it turns out in a surprising number of sites, this works.
 Wow.
 Now, they're, they're, they're, I haven't tried on my site.
 I have links to, to some, some white papers that go into more detail if people are curious,
 because there are little things you have to do.
 There's, for example, the user is not putting quotes around their net username and password.
 So those will be provided when their username and password are patched in to the SQL query,
 but it turns out that doesn't stop you.
 You, you can still do what you want to do, but you have to be cognizant of the way quotes
 are probably going to be futzed in there.
 So, so that, that's just a simple example of, of, of a way that without the developers
 ever intending you to provide your own SQL, literally over the internet using a web form,
 you're able to do something they didn't like.
 Well, it turns out.
 It's amazing.
 Just isn't that cool?
 Yeah.
 Wow.
 Well, cool, cool in a bad way.
 So it turns out that there are, that SQL is so powerful, you can use parentheses to get
 nesting.
 You're able to, you're able to query other aspects of the server that are not even relevant
 to the application.
 For example, the way SQL works is there are system level tables, sort of so-called metadata,
 where the system stores its own information.
 For example, there's, there's like a table called sys objects, sys columns, sys indexes,
 for example, those are tables containing information about the actual database tables.
 Using SQL, you're able to query those meta data tables to get the names of the databases,
 the columns in the database and other information.
 And in fact, there are, if you have a website which is not very carefully cleansing and
 scrutinizing everything provided by the user, it's possible, for example, on a website that's
 going to give you like a list of all the threads in a forum, for example, you could take the
 capability of dumping out from the SQL database, all of the threads in the forum, in the same
 fashion of essentially injecting your own SQL code through a form, you could buy a series
 of experiments on the server, even starting out knowing nothing about what the database
 tables are called, what the form columns are called, you're able to sort of over time extract
 that information in order to get what you need and ultimately put into a form a complex
 query which instead where the system thinks it's dumping out a scrolling list of threads,
 it instead dumps out every username and password in the username, password dictionary, basically,
 I mean just giving you all that data, now imagine if a banking site had this vulnerability,
 I mean this kind of vulnerability, it's one thing, it's like, okay, someone could play
 havoc in some online forum, but this is, I mean, this is how serious this kind of exploit
 is, is if your, if your own online banking technology that offered online banking had
 this kind of a vulnerability and somebody could sit there poking at the form, extracting
 information about the metadata, the table names and column names, and end up tricking their
 server into dumping the username and the login username and password of all the bank's online
 customers, allowing them then to log in as you and do anything that they would, that
 you would normally be able to do on your banking site, like sending checks to them.
 So how do you prevent this? Do you look at the input and I mean, and then say, oh, you
 can't pass SQL commands along or? Well, yes, and I mean, it's the essentially
 that's what you need to do. Now, remember how last week I read the 28 new cross-site
 scripting vulnerabilities that I had been identified just in March, the same problem
 relative to SQL injection has 38 new SQL injection exploits just in March, and I won't
 think they understand this. It's so well known that they'd understand this and it'd be just
 kind of standard operating procedure to prevent it.
 I know. And the problem is the, it's sort of like, okay, whose fault is it? Well, we
 know that it's the webmaster's fault. It's the person who coded this and didn't pay attention
 to this. But again, I mean, it is just, it's phenomenal. I'll just read a couple of these
 to give people a sense for this V bulletin, inline mod PHP SQL injection. V bulletin
 is an application for website forums. The application is exposed to a SQL injection issue
 because it fails to sufficiently sanitize user supply data to the post IDs parameter
 of the inline mod PHP script file before using it in an SQL query. I mean, it's exactly
 what we're talking about. And here's serendipity is a web blog application. The application
 is exposed to this issue do a failure in the, in the application to properly sanitize
 user's wide input. Angel learning management suite is a learning management application
 implemented in ASP active server pages. The application is prone to an SQL injection because
 it fails to just sufficiently sanitize, copper mine, photo gallery, Zephyr toolbox address
 book, gazzy yap boss game portal, gazzy yap boss is vulnerable. No, no, say it's not
 so SQL ledger ledger SMB remote code execution, monitor line, links management, Li guestbook
 application, rigter portal system, multiple AJ software products, PHP stats, creative
 files, absolute image gallery. We get a book blah blah blah. I mean, I mean, well, and
 that's one month, Leo, and they're like this every month. Now, what's really a concern
 is you might say, okay, well, so some guestbook application is vulnerable. It's like, okay,
 yes, the guestbook application is vulnerable. But more than likely, there's is a guestbook
 for a site that has a lot of other stuff going on. And what this does is this vulnerability
 in the guestbook app. And I think I just read about nine different guestbook apps that
 are vulnerable. And because this is sort of a low security thing, we know it's written
 by amateurs. I mean, these are, you know, most of what you just described there, you
 know, kind of free open source and, you know, kind of group projects, not even high end
 open source, you know, exactly the problem is the guestbook application makes use of
 the SQL server that runs the entire website. Right. Most websites might include only have
 one SQL program running MySQL running. Yep. And what different databases with different
 users and logins? But if you had the same user and login, no, no, no, no, it's worse
 than that, Leo, it's worse than that. A single insecure application like your guestbook application
 can use, can use access to the met the table metadata to get the names of every database
 on your SQL server. And then, and then explore it. Yes. So it ends up being it, it's, it,
 and this is really why SQL injection is such a problem is that it is exactly as you said
 in your case, you've got, you know, MySQL running one instance of the server that runs
 your whole site. So the guestbook application that also is, is using a single little guest
 book table in, in SQL server, that provides an entry point to allow a hacker to go and
 explore all the tables, all the databases that, that your site is using and get, you
 know, there, for example, much more valuable username and, and, and password data or anything
 that you're keeping in that SQL database. And in fact, due to some, some notorious problems
 with SQL, it's even possible to leverage SQL vulnerabilities to allow a hacker to get access
 to the underlying operating system. Wow. So I mean, it is a very, very powerful back door
 into, well, into web servers all over the place. And, you know, and the problem is that
 exactly as you said, Leo, you know, guestbook apps are written by people who, who this is
 like their first web application, it's freeware, it's downloadable. And exactly as we talked
 about last week, oftentimes it's not the kind of thing that you update. I mean, on all these
 things I was talking about, it's like, for example, Wolf, Wolf lab burning board is a
 free web based bulletin board package based on PHP and MySQL. The application is exposed
 to an SQL injection issue because it fails to properly sanitize user supplied input to
 the action parameter of the user group dot PHP script, walt lab burning board version 2.7
 and earlier versions are affected. Okay, so clearly they fixed this after version 2.7.
 Right. But how many people who are using this thing know that there's a problem. Now, all
 the hackers who, you know, in the world who didn't know before know exactly what the problem
 is with walt lab burning board versions, you know, earlier than and including 2.7. So now
 they go around to interesting websites to and maybe they even know because this is what
 they do, which types of bulletin boards different sites use now any site that didn't update
 its bulletin board system, which tends to be something sort of thrown in to give your
 users someplace to chat among themselves. Suddenly now that sites entire SQL database
 repository is vulnerable because there's a backdoor in through SQL. So that gives them
 access to anything that's running on that database server. Exactly any databases that
 are being managed by that instance of SQL on the web server, you know, it's really scary
 is that many, many people are in a shared hosting situation where there's one instance
 of my SQL running for many, many, many accounts. So it's not just your database. You may be
 exposing everybody else on the server, which means hundreds or thousands of different websites.
 Wow, that's interesting. It is. And in fact, you know, oftentimes, especially with web
 to assist situations, the SQL server has basically the page content that is all of their site
 is being served out of an SQL database. And so this is the way all of this website defacing
 that we hear about comes about. Oh, that's why exactly people are able to go in and you're
 able to delete table. So so through SQL, it's called drop table and baby does it. Right?
 It just it just drops the table. Yes, I know I've used it many times and I'm always scared
 when I press that button. Yes. And but I but imagine that somebody determines the table
 name wishes you no good. And then they insert a drop table command through a web form. So
 to answer your question, coming back to how do you prevent this, the way to prevent it
 obviously is to absolutely scrutinize anything the user provides. Yeah. And of course, this
 is a problem too, because you'd like a password to be freeform, let them put in any kind of
 junk that they want to into the password field as long as they are able to type it in again.
 So so of course, here's the danger in doing that is if they put in an SQL command extension,
 it's like, well, that's a valid password. I mean, no one's going to guess it. It's like
 an unguessable password. So you've got to really you've got to be very clever about
 how to allow things that are supposed to be anything the user wants to write. How does
 this system know that that's also an a valid SQL sequence. Right. So you see the problem.
 I mean, it's not that simple a problem to nip in the butt. And the same is the same
 is true, for example, in a in a forum where you're inherently wanting to let people put
 anything in that they want to, it's it's all it's also sort of a bigger problem than then
 scripting injection, because you could argue that as long as you don't allow that open,
 the open angle bracket script close angle bracket to be present, then you're going to
 be okay. Well, of course, there are people have cleverly found ways around that by using
 various other means of evaluating expressions to that string. But what with SQL, it's much
 more like English language. And there isn't something as obvious as the script keyword
 to hang on to. So I mean, it it really is a problem. It requires extreme sanitization
 of anything coming from the user and and believe me, here was 38 examples from March. There's
 a similar number in February and a similar number in January and it goes back through
 time. Because again, we we've got people who are not security experts who are using
 very powerful tools like SQL behind them and and web servers to put together an application
 the moment they get it working so that it doesn't crash when users submit data, they
 think they're done. It's like, Hey, I got this working, you know, I'm done. Goodbye. I'm
 done. I'm going to pay me. Yeah, exactly pay me. And I'm on to my next disaster. Yeah,
 wow. So it is a it is a very serious pervasive problem. And it's going to take time for for
 awareness of this to to filter out into the web developer community. Because that's really
 the only way you're going to handle it. I mean, these are these are valid queries to issue
 to the SQL Server. So there's it's not possible, for example, for for for SQL Server or my SQL
 to to say, Wait a minute, this looks like it's a suspicious request. There isn't anything
 suspicious about these requests. They're valid requests. The problem is that people you don't
 trust were allowed to make them of your server by by leveraging this whole concept of of
 anonymous user accepted input. And this creates a serious problem. One we've never talked
 about before, but I'm glad we have now. It's fascinating. I heard you know, I've heard
 about SQL injection. And by the way, you know, I I'm always looking for updates on the various
 programs we use on the site, like the Drupal program. And there have been SQL injection
 exploits in some of these programs, I don't know about Drupal particularly, but I always
 look for updates and I always make sure I apply the updates. And if you're a webmaster, that's
 just one more thing you have to do, you have to keep your eye peeled, even if it's just
 a stupid guest book. In fact, next week, we're going to read a Q and A note from somebody
 who who whose ears perked up when I read through that list, and he realized he was using one
 of the vulnerable things. And it had been exploited to attack his server. Hello. So this is I mean,
 this is real stuff. This is not science fiction that we're talking about here.
 Thanks, Dave. Thank you. Another great and fascinating subject explaining something many
 people have heard many times and now you know exactly what it all means. Yeah. This show
 is always brought to you by the good folks at nerds on site. If you're a nerd and you
 want to hang out with other nerds, build your business instead of spending time figuring
 out how to do these things. Nerds on site is for you. They're growing. They need more
 nerds to service their customers. They're looking for nerds with all kinds of skills,
 PC and Mac people, especially as like Cisco, Oracle, fix it technicians, website designers,
 programmers, project managers, even sales trainers, security experts, antivirus, gurus.
 They especially love those nerds who troubleshoot, tear apart, rebuild their own systems in their
 spare time. You're an independent contractor. You can stay an independent contractor, but
 you're in business for yourself, not by yourself. To find out more nerds on sites all over the
 world, you just go to I want to be a nerd.com. I want to be a nerd.com. Register for a nerds
 only meeting in your area today. Good people really give you the help you need to get your
 job done and make your business a success. I want to be a nerd.com. Thank them for having
 it. Security now a success. Security now of course is brought to you also by SpinRight.
 That's Steve's day job. So I say it's brought to you by SpinRight because if Steve didn't
 have something to do, he wouldn't have time for this. That's for sure. You can find out
 more at SpinRight.info, S-P-I-N-R-I-T-E.info or on steepsightgrc.com. And we also want to mention
 the GRC.com has the 16 kilobit versions of the show, including what was it, 84A, 85A.
 I can't even remember. 85A will be there by the time our voices are being heard, Leo.
 You know, I did make it's funny because I made a 16 kilobit version of it, but I completely
 understand why you didn't post it because, you know, it's it's it wasn't something you
 would want to say. It was very specific to a point in time. It was a news bulletin really,
 but people want completeness. Lesson learned. I will have everything hosted as of this podcast.
 You got to remember nerds like, you know, complete sets, complete set, you know that.
 Yeah. If you're collecting comic books or security now, you got to have all 87 16 kilobit
 versions, transcripts, thanks to Elaine notes to at GRC.com. That's also where you'll find
 besides SpinRight, Steve's free security program. Secureable is up there to test the security
 of your system. And of course, shields up the world's most popular firewall and router
 test system. Absolutely free GRC. Next week, questions and answers. Yep. Episode 88, we're
 divisible by four once again. It's good. I like that. Always enjoy those. Well, I'll
 see you then, Steve. Right, Oleo. Secure it now.
