 This is Twitch.
 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by AOL Radio at aol.com/podcasting.
 This is Security Now with Steve Gibson, Episode 88 for April 19th, 2007.
 Your questions, Steve's answers, Number 18.
 Security Now is brought to you by Astaro, makers of the Astaro Security Gateway, on the web
 at www.AST ARO.com.
 And by Nerds on Site, looking to grow your IT service business, find out how Nerds on Site
 can help visit IWANNABEANNERD.com.
 It's time for another thrilling gripping edition of Security Now, actually, because it's Episode
 88, divisible by four more than once.
 It's more than just a thrilling gripping episode.
 It's THE thrilling and grippingest of all your questions and Steve's answers.
 Thrilling and grippingest of all, yes, I like it, grippingest, well, you know, I feel that
 way.
 It's really the most interesting episodes because they're so wide ranging.
 And it's one of the reasons I do talk radio is really people ask, you know, if you answer
 questions that people are asking, you know, you're talking about stuff people care about.
 So I always mention these.
 Yeah, and in fact, I think also that they benefit from the fact that they're all kinds
 of different topics, not just like we're not focusing on one, certainly when we're talking
 about a specific important topic, that's a really good way to do a show, which is what
 we do for three out of four, but I think also equally good is a is a paupery that involves,
 you know, users' questions and also their comments.
 I'm finding people are now beginning not only to ask questions, but to say things that are
 really worth sharing with everyone else.
 So we're mixing a few of those in too.
 We have very smart listeners and in fact, it kind of surprises me that people, intelligent
 people, experts in this field are listening to what we're doing.
 Isn't that nice?
 Yeah, it does.
 It does.
 I'm almost a little bit embarrassed by it.
 It's like, oh, it's just our little, this is this little podcast we're doing, but for
 what it's worth, people who have written and many people have who have said things like,
 I've been an IT, you know, for the last 45 years and I know all about this stuff, but
 sure enough, you know, I listen to you guys and I enjoy listening to you and every single
 episode has at least one or two things, you know, that even I haven't run across before.
 So that's just very cool.
 And that's the nature of the beast.
 And I think anybody who's really a good security professional acknowledges that.
 It's the ones that the people who say, I know everything who I would watch out for, frankly.
 And that's one of the things I love about you is you, your thirst for knowledge is insatiable.
 And, and you are the first to say, I don't know, but I can't wait to find out.
 And that's what.
 Oh, and they ask, and the web is just so amazing for that reason.
 I mean, just anything we want to know, we're able to plow into.
 And frankly, I mean, you know, we've covered some things in security now that I've known
 in more generality than I have presented it to our listeners because for the purpose
 of the show, I've had to get much more specific.
 So I mean, the show is driving me into a greater level of detail for areas that are things
 I just haven't had to any reason to explore before.
 So it's, you know, it's certainly good there too.
 That's excellent.
 Well, let's say, unless you have something you want to talk about from past episodes,
 delve right into our questions.
 We've got quite a few here.
 Yep.
 Let's do it.
 Number one from Donald Parker of Laurel, Maryland.
 And whenever I see a Maryland address, I think probably works for the National Security Administration.
 Okay, that's fine.
 I won't hold it against you.
 He has been wondering about bot networks.
 We talk about those a lot.
 He says, would you agree that the bot network epidemic exists because consumers leave their
 broadband connected computer on 24/7, the best way to limit the number of bots a bot
 heard or has at his disposal would be to limit the amount of time that broadband computers
 are connected to the internet.
 I do know some people who have various ways of disconnecting from the internet, whether
 it's hardware or just doing it by hand.
 Is that a good idea, you think?
 Well, yeah, it's certainly, I mean, it's not going to solve the problem completely.
 I very well remember when I was doing my research into denial of service attacks.
 And I was, remember that I penetrated into an IRC chat forum where a major bot network
 was in operation, that is, as the bots came online, they phoned home into this IRC channel
 and basically said, hey, bot number 34926, ready for action.
 Yeah, it's terrifying to see that because it happened so fast and so many thousands of
 machines join up.
 Well, and so what I was noticing, and I did this because I was able to see IPs, is I would
 track those back out of curiosity to see, you know, what types of computers are these?
 Are these in universities?
 Are they on cable modems?
 Are they dial up?
 Are they AOL?
 At the time, and this is now many years ago, many of these were dial up.
 That is, so even though a user is using a machine which is not on the net all the time,
 when they do get on the net, the bot is aware of it, it connects up and spends as much time
 as it's able to doing its bad stuff.
 Now, if you have a 100,000 computer network, even if half of them, and if they're worldwide,
 it will only be half of them are offline any one time, you still have 50,000 computers
 at your disposal.
 Exactly.
 Now, one mitigating factor is typically, well, I almost exclusively dial up people are using
 a modem, which means that their ability to flood the world with zombie bot traffic is
 really constrained by the bandwidth of their connection, you know, 56K or so, so, or typically,
 but certainly, broadband users are a much bigger problem because they've got much more
 upstream bandwidth at their disposal, and I mean, I don't really disagree with our question
 here, Tom Parker, he's right that always on computers, on broadband connections, that's
 the worst possible scenario from a being attacked standpoint, but it's, you know, it's basically
 it scales back as people turn their machines off and or as they have DSL that has a lower
 rate than cable modem typically and so forth.
 So it's really sort of a sliding scale.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 It just makes things worse, but it wouldn't eliminate the problem altogether.
 Not to get rid of it.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 I have to say, I agree.
 Intrepid listener Matt in New Zealand made a disturbing discovery.
 I just wanted to let you know your topic on XSS cross site scripting inspired me to check
 whether my bank's website was vulnerable.
 It turns out it is, oh, oh, to hear, and as if that weren't bad enough, they do some silly
 things with their session ID cookie.
 These two flaws combined allow an attacker to craft a URL, which if visited by a customer
 will load a persistent cookie into their browser, even if the customer doesn't log in after
 clicking on the link.
 And what that means is when they return to the site, the session ID is the same.
 So the attacker can easily hijack the session and perform tramps, perform tramps transfers
 or any other bank transactions as that customer.
 I don't want to disclose anymore at this time as I'm in the process of dealing with the bank
 on the issue.
 Is it possible that Matt's found this?
 Well, I also eliminated some additional content from his question because it wasn't appropriate
 to share it with, you know, a huge anonymous audience.
 He was trying to convince you of the veracity Matt really does seem to know what he's talking
 about.
 The one thing that I wrote back to him that I would caution him about is nobody likes
 to be told that some high value site like a bank's e-commerce banking transaction site
 is vulnerable.
 There are instances where well-meaning hackers have found themselves brought up on charges.
 Adrian Lamo might be the first name that would jump to mind.
 Yeah.
 Now, there are some people who have done it in sort of the wrong way.
 So you could argue that there's a right way and a wrong way to do it.
 But technically, unfortunately, our laws now are so restrictive and subject to interpretation
 that an attorney for the bank could argue that in performing these experiments that Matt
 had to inherently perform, and notice we don't have Matt's last name here, in doing this,
 he was hacking the site, unquote.
 That is, he was performing conduct outside the terms and services that are posted on
 the site, therefore, even though he's trying to help them, there have been situations where
 people who have only wanted to be helpful have found themselves on the wrong side of
 a lawsuit and criminal charges.
 So it's something, unfortunately, that is very delicate.
 The only thing I could suggest is that if other people were to do this, and maybe Matt
 is being anonymous, I hope he's being anonymous, I would certainly start out that way, you
 know, somehow bring it to people's attention in a way that's not putting a bull's eye,
 you know, on you.
 But it is really interesting that he, you know, he did some poking around after listening
 to last weeks or two weeks ago, our cross-site scripting episode and apparently discovered
 a vulnerability.
 Unbelievable.
 Amazing.
 Wow.
 Nathan Clark of Allendale, Michigan, he says, I like Vista, but I'm having a little trouble
 with it.
 I recently purchased a new laptop.
 It came installed with Windows Vista home premium.
 I actually enjoy the OS more than I thought I would.
 I have noticed one key problem.
 Occasionally, when a program is launched that requires administrative rights, the system
 won't switch to the protected mode correctly.
 The only way to get it passed this is to log out and log back in.
 I think when he says protected mode, he's talking about UAC.
 Is that right?
 Exactly.
 I was curious if you have any advice I wanted to raise awareness about this problem.
 I haven't seen this myself.
 Do you know what he's talking about?
 Yes, there have been some reports of this and having programmed UAC for my little secureable
 freeware, I understand what's going on.
 It's a consequence of the way Windows is trying again to give us the best of both worlds.
 As we know, when you log in, you are inherently protected because you've got non-administrative
 credentials and then the user account control attempts to elevate your credentials.
 Well, it's very possible to write code for which that will not work.
 For example, code could be, and this gets into the end trails of Windows, but there are
 ways you ask for things from Windows which are marked with your rights at the time they're
 granted.
 If a program were to ask for things before Windows realized that what it was going to
 do with those things are privileged, the rights granted to those initial tokens would
 be limited and they're not dynamically re-granted as a consequence of UAC.
 So basically, this is a perfect instance of what, again, what Microsoft is trying to do
 is solve the problem of people normally running with too much rights, more rights than they
 really need for most work-a-day things and then not making it necessary to log out and
 log back in in order to do things that need administrative rights.
 Mostly they've solved the problem in an elegant fashion, but as is always the case, there are
 incompatibilities with some programs that assumed the rights you have when you log in
 are the rights you're ever going to have during that login session.
 That's what Microsoft deliberately changed and what Nathan is seeing is a place where
 a particular program isn't flexible enough to accept the greater rights be granted it
 because Microsoft just isn't doing the right thing because Microsoft has changed the rules
 essentially.
 So it's a non-vista-aware program essentially.
 Yes.
 And most programs today are non-vista-aware and Microsoft is trying to be compatible with
 them this one they stumbled on a little bit.
 So unfortunately-
 So either the-
 Yes, the program could be updated for this to work or this may well be something that
 just is not going to be happy if it's normally running with less privilege and it's not going
 to understand that suddenly it's got more privilege now than it did when it was initially
 started up.
 Right.
 Right.
 Donald Parker in, I'm sorry, one more back, back, back, back to question four.
 You don't want to skip Chris and Connecticut, he's been wondering for a while, I've used
 your shoot the messenger and unplug and pray, these are free security tools, Steve offers
 at GRC.com.
 To disable these unnecessary services, I guess shoot the messenger is that windows messenger
 service that actually Kevin Rose discovered it was a flaw in windows and unplug and pray
 is that un is that plug and pay play service.
 What's to keep malware from just turning them back on in a similar vein.
 I've noticed that some software retrospect backup, for instance, offers to open the necessary
 ports on the windows firewall when it installs, well, what's to prevent malware from doing
 the same thing and not letting me know.
 I know that once malware is running, all bets are off, but some of these measures are ideally
 supposed to help control the damage.
 Are they helpful or are they just window dressing?
 Oh, good question.
 I thought it was a great question.
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 First of all, most of the things that I was doing during pre XP and, and, and also now
 pre Vista, that is, you know, through, through before XP, but all through XP, I was doing
 some, some quicky little freeware in some cases to fix a problem often to turn off a
 service that Microsoft had running by default, which was known to have security vulnerabilities.
 So, you know, shoot the messenger turned out to be a problem.
 Not only was it causing pop ups on user systems, but it turns out that because it was a service
 with a, an open listening port that was just collecting anything that came in, there were
 ways that it could be taken advantage of.
 The universal plug and pray, plug and, universal plug and play was a service that was found
 to be vulnerable.
 And again, I was just annoyed with Microsoft that they had all these services running by
 default just to make things sort of work automatically, even for people who didn't need them, which
 really represented a problem.
 Now, what's changed is with service pack two, Windows own firewall is on by default.
 So even if you had open ports on your system, they are behind the firewall.
 Now the beautiful aspect of the second part of this question is he's talking about how
 some programs are able to programmatically and silently open ports through the firewall.
 It's absolutely true, and it's one of the reasons that having a router is still a good
 thing, even if you've got a PC with a personal firewall, any software that wants to, whether
 good or bad, has a documented and officially supported means for basically bringing the
 firewall down for all intents and purposes.
 It may not want to turn the whole thing off because then all kinds of bells and whistles
 start warning you that your firewall has been turned off, but it doesn't need the whole
 firewall down.
 It can just open one hole through the firewall that allows external hackers to get in through
 that route.
 So that cannot happen, however, if you're using a net router and you turn off the net router's
 auto configuration, which is universal plug and play in the router.
 So he is correct that essentially I would say that you could turn these services off
 if you want to using my freeware or just shutting them down using the normal service
 management panels in Windows, both XP and Vista, but it's really not that necessary
 now and you can have side effects if things depend upon those services.
 As long as you're behind a net router with universal plug and play disabled, it's not
 possible for software inside the network to go reconfigure the router to make it vulnerable.
 Okay.
 But on the computer, it can do anything it wants.
 Yes.
 And that's the real problem.
 Once you've compromised on the computer, you're kind of out of luck.
 Yes.
 You never then are really able to trust it again because you don't know what might have happened
 to it.
 They're not window dressing, but they're a barrier.
 But since a lot of hackers know enough to do this, this is why I always say that a software
 firewall isn't necessarily very useful because they can offer me disabled.
 Yes.
 And in fact, we're also seeing the typical refractory delay from introduction to implementation
 of, you know, exploitation, you know, sure, XP's firewalls on before service pack two,
 it wasn't.
 So it was never a problem.
 The hackers were worrying about it now that it is on all the time and Microsoft has a
 published API, an application programming interface that allows software to open holes.
 For example, you know, you would want your instant messaging program to work easily without
 requiring that people had to manually reconfigure their firewall.
 So good programs are doing this on behalf of their users, but so can malware.
 Right.
 Right.
 Marker Laurel Maryland has a solution to the bot network epidemic.
 He writes, I seem to be the only person on the planet.
 See whenever I read that, all right, I'm just going to keep reading, I seem to be the only
 person on the plant that knows how to defeat bot network herders.
 I can't get anyone to listen to me.
 The bot nap epidemic cannot be solved with a software solution.
 A distributed attack method must be met with a distributed defense strategy.
 No one seems to realize this problem exists because of broadband technology with dial up
 computers when they were only connected and susceptible to hackers when they went through
 the long process of connecting to the internet with broadband.
 This is the same kind of thing as our first question with broadband.
 People leave their computers powered on when they go to sleep at night and leave for work
 in the morning because they want the convenience of instant access to the internet.
 Hackers use their computers more than their owners do.
 No broadband connected computers should be allowed to connect to the internet without
 some method of automatically disconnecting the computer from the internet, whether the
 user shuts down their computer or not.
 If hackers don't have so many potential bots at their disposal, the threat would decrease
 significantly and cyber law and order would be restored.
 Steve, do you want to just shoot this down now or?
 Yeah.
 Well, we actually did.
 I guess I covered this in answering the first question much more thoroughly than I had intended
 to in the first question, thinking of this question.
 Really, he's just saying that broadband connected machines are the problem and that they should
 not be left turned on or connected.
 The reason I wanted to bring this up is this does provide some sort of some additional
 fleshing out of that idea because in fact, there are many reasons why people do leave
 their machines on all the time and connected to the internet.
 For example, you want to be able to download large podcasts in the middle of the night and
 not sit around having your bandwidth tied up by doing that.
 And this, and we see this all the time, a lot of botnets are in universities or businesses
 where computers are left on all the time for perfectly legitimate business reasons.
 And there's always going to be enough of those on.
 And by the way, if you have a big enough pool, let's say 600 million Windows users, there's
 sure to be, let's say 100 million on all the time, plenty, plenty.
 Right?
 Yes.
 I mean, not even if they're not all the time.
 If they're on now, on any given moment, I guess is what I should say.
 Right.
 And also again, it seems to me that, well, it's, I'm not one who recommends turning machines
 on and off all the time.
 All of my main machines are on all the time.
 I know that's becoming, you know, non-politically correct from an energy consumption standpoint.
 But it is really wear and tear on the system to heat it up and cool it down, heat it up
 and cool it down, as opposed to just, you know, letting it stay idling.
 And of course, newer machines are much better about their energy consumption when they're
 not in use.
 They'll spin down the hard drives, they'll, they'll, they'll blank the monitors and, you
 know, go into an energy conserving mode.
 So, you know, I'm not, I'm not someone who thinks you should be turning your machines
 off all the time.
 And certainly unplugging them from the net is a, is a pain too.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Aaron Burns in the United Kingdom is seeking a bit of assurance.
 I was wondering if WPA, a PSK is at all crackable.
 I've heard it could be cracked offline using the brute force dictionary attack.
 But if you use a 63 character random password, you're virtually uncrackable, right?
 Right.
 Um, there you go.
 Next question.
 No, that, you know, people will ask me that almost every week.
 Well, I heard WPA was cracked and it was cracked in the same way that you could crack,
 say, PGP or any encryption tool if you use a bad password.
 Yes, the, the, the only, the, the, the proper thing from a crypto science standpoint to say
 is that the only known attack on WPA using a pre shared key, which is what the PSK stands
 for, WPA with a pre shared key is that if the key can be discovered, the only way to
 discover the key, again, the only known way to discover the key is by taking a chunk of
 data that was encrypted using that key, taking it, you know, offline means, you know, take
 it home with you and give a, a powerful computer, the job of trying either all possible keys
 or all mixes of words in a dictionary, the so-called dictionary attack.
 These are brute force.
 And as long as you've got a long key that is just looks like gobbledygook, I mean, the
 kind of keys generated by my passwords page, grc.com/passwords, I'd on the fly generate
 keys for people over a secure connection that cannot be sniffed, which will never be generated
 again.
 And you can, you know, refresh the page a few times, grab pieces of keys if you want
 to like make up your own.
 So you're not even using one that I gave you, but it's just raw password material.
 If you use that, the, you are doing everything you possibly can to be secure.
 The reason I also enclosed this question was just last week, huge progress was made in
 cracking web, WEP, the original insecure technology.
 And that's going to be the topic of next week's podcast is looking at what happened to web.
 It just got a lot worse.
 So anyone who's still using it thinking that, ah, it's good again.
 It's still good.
 It turns out you can crack now using the updates, any web encrypted network in around a minute.
 Wow, that's really bad.
 And just to reiterate, WPSK is perfectly secure.
 If you use a good, strong password, yep, one that, you know, not in the dictionary, not
 your dog's name, not I am so sexy, something, something a little bit harder than that.
 And of course, Steve's got that great password generator for you.
 Yeah, mine, mine is one of those.
 I got it from my own page and I, I mean, I don't know what it looks like.
 It's nothing I can remember, but I have it in a text file.
 And when I'm configuring a machine, I got it on an on a USB dongle.
 I'll stick it in, drop, you know, open the file, drop the password in, and then, then
 take it out.
 And I'm not leaving it on the machine at the, because the password is then hashed into an
 actual key that the, that the WPA system uses.
 So, you know, mine is not something I even know.
 I don't know my own password, it's just 63 characters of junk.
 But I'm as secure as I can be with, with WPA using a pre shared key.
 That's one of the nice things about WPA.
 You only enter it once and that's it.
 You don't have to reenter it again again.
 And, and XP and Vista really like it.
 They work very, I mean, they're happier with WPA than they are being forced back into WPA,
 W.E.
 encryption.
 Yeah.
 Mark Jones of Midland, Minnesota says, I have a question concerning vulnerabilities, such
 as the recent cursor zero day.
 I'm careful.
 I keep up to date.
 I also find myself diagnosing other people's machines, especially with my less than computer
 or literate relatives.
 The nightmare scenario next to the family fortune going to Nigeria is that pop's machine becomes
 a zombie.
 How do you know whether your machine is a zombie?
 This is good.
 I want to know this.
 Will processes be running continually to these machines just phone home and startup?
 Is there something to look for?
 There are a couple things to look for that we've touched on in earlier episodes, but it's
 always worth, you know, making this current and, and reminding people two ways you could
 see a zombie.
 And this is what I do.
 If I encounter a machine for the first time I did like a week ago, I went over to a friend's
 house exactly like this, not a relative, but a friend who said, you know, something feels
 wrong.
 The system really seems slow.
 Can you take a look at it?
 So I ran task manager, which is, you know, it's in every version of Windows.
 And you can also get it by doing control alt delete and you pop pops up the little window
 from what from which you can select to run task manager.
 And I look at the process list, which is everything that Windows says is running.
 Now there are many of these things are cryptic looking, you know, there are things you may
 not be familiar with, but over time you can develop some familiarity with them.
 Of course, you know, I live in there.
 So I was able to use task manager to just sort of browse down through the stuff he had
 running and see whether there was something that really looks suspicious.
 If you do find something suspicious, you can then what I'll do is use the search, the file
 search built into Windows.
 I'll put the name of the program because it'll say, you know, P Q R D Z X dot X C is like,
 okay, well, that one doesn't ring a bell.
 So I'll, I'll just cut and paste that or type that into search.
 Have it find the file for me and Explorer, then I can right click on it and look at its
 properties and the version tab will tell me who made it.
 And almost always is like, oh, yeah, that's my, you know, the, the Corel photo something
 or other, or it's the, you know, the driver that came with my HP scanner or, you know,
 there'll be, there'll be something that is immediately recognizable about that this then
 disqualifies it typically for like further concern.
 If it's not something that has a version tab and you can't recognize what it is, then
 even so normally where it's located in the, on your, your main system drive, that will
 often give you a clue if in, if when you search for it, it'll show you where it found it on
 the disk.
 It's like, oh, okay.
 Well, that's under an application that I installed a week ago.
 And so I know what that is.
 So that's, so looking at the process list is, is one good way.
 Now that fails if what you've got in your system is a, has root kit technology because
 as we know, root kit technology specifically is root kit technology because it's able to
 hide itself.
 One of the things that, that really good kernel level root kit malware will do is once it's
 running, it will go down and edit the data structures, which govern running processes.
 There's a list, literally a linked list of processes where the first one has a link to
 the second one that has a link to the third one and then so forth.
 But what the malware will do is when it finds itself running, it will read through the list
 until it finds the one that's pointing to it.
 And it will instead point that to the one it's pointing to essentially unlinking itself
 from the list.
 When it does that, then simple task enumerators like task manager won't see it.
 It just won't show up at all.
 So, so while task manager is useful for sort of giving yourself sort of an appraisal of
 what's going on, it's not something you could absolutely count on, but it works more often
 than not enough so that it's something it's like the first place I always go.
 The second way that something that is running in your machine and playing with a network
 will show up is with the so-called netstat command, which we did an entire episode on.
 So, essentially, there are commands you can give when you open a DOS box window, the netstat
 followed by some parameters that will quickly show the activity, the network activity of
 your various network using programs, processes, again, running in the system.
 And you can see if ports are open, if connections are made, and using the proper commands in
 XP and Vista, it will show you the name of the process doing the communication.
 Now, what's cool about that is many fewer processes should be listening with open ports
 or talking.
 So, so netstat can be used to narrow this down dramatically, and I would refer people
 back to the, the episode that we did entirely on netstat, anyone who wants to a little refresher
 on this, we really gave it good coverage about a year ago.
 Yeah, so there really isn't like Norton antivirus or something for detecting invasions, there's
 just too many possible ways you could be co-opted.
 Yes, and there are always things that are happening before the AV companies are up to
 speed, and that's what bites people.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah.
 Babak, Babak.
 Oh, by the way, I think AVG, the folks who do the free antivirus, have just announced a
 free anti-root kit, although there are several other choices as well, but it's nice to have
 another anti-root kit or at least a root kit detector.
 The more the merrier.
 Yeah.
 But back in San Jose, California asks, I was wondering if you could comment on which hard
 disk defrag and maintenance tools you prefer.
 I'm referring to tools that run under windows.
 What do you use to defrag and maintain your disk besides spin right?
 Well, certainly spin right for sector level maintenance.
 There is a defragger that you'll know well, Leo, probably.
 It's still around, and it's my favorite.
 It's from a company called Golden Bow Software.
 That's still around.
 It's V opt.
 Yeah.
 That's the one that Jerry Parnell would just sing the praises of.
 Yes.
 And I'm still doing so.
 I've become less and less impressed by Microsoft's defragging.
 I find that when I use the defragger in XP or especially Vista, Vista, it just took all
 the meat out of it.
 It's just, I mean, it's just amazing.
 I'd like to see...
 You're not supposed to really need it though with NTFS, are you?
 I know, but it's just, it feels good.
 It just feels...
 It's got all these little red teeth all over my hard drive.
 I like everything to be in little blue blocks, and so anyway, V opt is my favorite defragger.
 It runs...
 I'm not sure about Vista, but all certainly all the way through XP, and I'm sure they
 must have a version now, because Vista's been around long enough.
 Anyway, they've kept it alive.
 It does a very good job.
 It's got a whole bunch of really nice features.
 The thing that's built into Windows, there's a disk cleanup, which is something I also recommend
 that people use, because it empties your trash, it throws away a whole bunch of the cached
 stuff that your Internet Explorer browser has downloaded.
 I mean, in many times, in many cases, hundreds of megabytes of just stuff you really don't
 need.
 And so, when you run this, it will get rid of that stuff, V opt has an even more thorough
 version of that, that does a better job, a deeper job of cleaning up really the debris
 that the systems accumulate over time, and it is the case also that defragging your system
 will mean less wear and tear on your hard drive.
 It's the head moving interesting, which create wear and tear, and that's what causes heat.
 If a drive is just sitting there idling or not moving the head a lot, it will run cooler
 than if the head is flying back and forth all over the place.
 So, you know, it is possible to over-defrag and make it worse.
 In other words, you shouldn't run these things every day, because then you'll be doing the
 opposite.
 You'd be over-exercising your drive.
 Yes, you'd be putting the drive through more work than it wants.
 And there is also something, sort of a spin-right-ish benefit to defragging, and that is, that it
 does cause your system to revisit areas of the drive, and it allows the drive to see
 that it's got problems that it might otherwise not be aware of.
 Spin-right, of course, does it from 0 to 100%.
 I mean, it does the entire surface.
 Defragging doesn't guarantee you that, but it's another sort of a good thing to do.
 Just sort of, you know, shake the dust loose from the drive.
 And by the way, a Vopt is available for VISTA, does work with VISTA $40 at VOPT.com.
 The other one that I love is a funky program called Spacemonger, S-P-A-C-E-M-O-N-G-E-R.
 There was a program that I was using for years called DriveMapper.
 This is a really cool visual technology.
 Imagine that you, and it's visualization, which is what I love about this.
 How do you know when you notice that your hard drive is like fuller like by a lot than
 it was a month ago, how do you know where the space went?
 Well, Spacemonger, like, which is free, the reason I'm mentioning it, is version 1.4 is
 free.
 Sean, the developer, is now charging for 2.0, which does a whole bunch of more stuff than
 version 1.4, but frankly, 1.4, the free version, is all anyone needs.
 If you just put Spacemonger into Google, it'll find it for you.
 What this does is it shows your hierarchy of folders and files on your computer in a
 hierarchy, a nested hierarchy of rectangles on the screen, where the size of the rectangle
 is the relative size of the file or directory.
 But when you let this thing run on your computer, the first thing you'll see is like big chunks
 of stuff, which are like, you know, videos you downloaded three years ago and forgot
 about, or a whole tree of audio wave file songs buried deep under my documents, my songs,
 my audio albums or something, you know, way down, sort of off the chart, but there it
 is sitting there, occupying 650 megabytes per CD, and you just forgot about it.
 So what's so cool about Spacemonger, and in fact, this is the thing I also use, I downloaded
 it on the spot when I was over at my friend's house a week ago, when he was saying that his
 computer is running so slowly, and we found exactly that.
 This guy had like, had downloaded DVD content from a couple years ago and forgot about it.
 He had, you know, each DVD is 4.7 gig, he had like six or seven DVDs sitting on his computer,
 just forgot about it, but boy, it stood out like a glaring problem under Spacemonger because
 it makes it so easy to see where the space went.
 So I really recommend it without, it's free, I recommend version 1.4 without hesitation.
 And there's a OS 10, a similar OS 10 application, and I thought it was disk view, I'm trying
 to remember something X, anyway, that I'll find for you.
 We've mentioned it on the show before, it's very, it's really a useful thing to see what
 you've got.
 It's so handy.
 I think it's actually ultimately was based on a Unix X window application way back from
 way back when they would show this beautiful graphical display of what you've got.
 Well, it's funny too, because the, the, the original one that this disk mapper, it was
 all burdened with intellectual property claims and patents and all this stuff.
 Well, it turns out that Sean found that this had all been done in a university environment
 and all this technology, this notion of nested size relative rectangles is in the public domain.
 It was put there by the people who developed it so nobody could claim ownership of it.
 Yeah.
 It's very cool.
 Ah, let's see.
 So any other tools, let's see, that's a D-frag tool is V opt maintenance tool.
 Um, and of course, oh, spin right, there would be a good choice.
 If you have a hard drive problem, just keep, keep spin right in mind.
 Well, you do me a favor that Steve Gibson's not free, but excellent, uh, utility for protecting
 your hard drive.
 It really is.
 I mean, let's face it.
 A great tool.
 Hey, we're only on a question eight out before we get to nine, 10, 11, and 12.
 I'd like to mention this podcast is brought to you by the folks at nerds on site.
 I want to be a nerd.com.
 They love Steve Gibson.
 They really have stepped up here to support us and the podcast, but they're also looking
 for nerds.
 Now there are people with skills, you know, obviously the nerds who like to troubleshoot
 tear apart and rebuild their own computers in their own time.
 But also people who do it professionally, they're experts in Pat PCs or Max or Cisco or Cisco
 or Oracle or fix it technicians.
 I mean, it even includes website designers and programmers and project managers, even
 if you're in sales or you're a trainer, of course, security experts, anti virus gurus.
 If you're in the business of helping people with technology, uh, you should know about
 nerds on site there.
 Nerds are independent contractors.
 So you can be in business for yourself, but not by yourself.
 They help you run the business.
 They're all over the country, all over the world, Canada, US, Mexico, England, Australia,
 South Africa, Bolivia and more countries all the time.
 If you're a nerd and you love working with people, go to I want to be a nerd.com and register
 for a near nerds only meeting in your area today or you could also go to security now,
 uh, twit.tv slash S and there's a link, a big banner ad there for nerds on site.
 We thank them for their support and invite you, remind you to visit.
 I want to be a nerd.com.
 Question nine, John in Katie, Texas.
 I'm on a small corporate land with a Cisco router and a separate stateful firewall.
 Whoo hoo, how can I allow outbound SSH connections, but block the building of outbound tunnels?
 Oh, to defeat my proxy firewall settings outbound SSH tunneling seems like a great way to exfiltrate
 data.
 People do it all the time.
 That's a great way to build a tunnel and then, you know, the, the IT guy can't see what
 you're doing.
 Yep.
 And there is nothing he can do about it.
 No, if you're going to allow outbound SSH, you're allowing tunneling.
 Yep.
 The only thing that, well, I mean, the only thing I could imagine doing would be to try
 to get control of your clients, but even the client firewall on the computer, it's going
 to see this connection originating from inside and allow it to go outbound.
 Right.
 So it'll go through the client firewall through the corporate firewall.
 And you know, if he wants to allow outbound SSH connections, then, you know, they can
 be tunnels and because they're inherently encrypted.
 I mean, there's no way to see inside those tunneling is absolutely possible.
 Yeah.
 The only, the only thing I could imagine would be, and this is, you know, hard to implement
 and, and sort of a corporate level would be if he were to proxy SSH and forced his users
 to use a certificate that the proxy server had, then essentially that would allow him
 to, to perform a corporate authorized man in the middle attack, essentially terminate
 the SSH connection at the corporate firewall proxy, decrypt it, filter it, and then, and
 then establish a second leg SSH connection out to the remote destination.
 So basically you would be breaking the tunnel open, running it through permission filters,
 and then reassembling it, you know, connecting it back into a tunnel and sending it out.
 But again, that's, you know, it's possible, but it's certainly not something easy to do.
 So yeah, I mean, he really could use a corporate VPN or something else like that.
 That would be probably a better solution, right?
 Then sitting on the stage.
 Well, yeah.
 But a corporate VPN, I mean, a VPN is a tunnel.
 Yeah.
 It's an encrypted tunnel.
 And if you allow that to happen out through your firewall, you have no way of monitoring
 what your users are doing.
 Yeah.
 Jason Anderson in Wisconsin is a savvy webmaster who got caught by cross-site scripting.
 Oh, no.
 This is the, this is the one I referred to last week, Leo.
 Yeah.
 I heard your last podcast on cross-site scripting.
 My ears perked up when you said that webmen had a vulnerability, lots of people use webmen.
 I have a server that runs Gen 2 Linux and it recently became compromised because of this
 webmen vulnerability.
 Wow.
 Uh-huh.
 I installed it and forgot about updating it and see this is what happens when the newer
 versions came out and a hacker found my user credentials and webmen SSH, oh boy, into my
 server.
 They then proceeded to set up a phishing site in one of the sub-directories of the Apache
 server.
 The phishing site was a PayPal site after a week or so.
 I got a call from Roadrunner saying that I was hosting a phishing site on my web server
 and the domain name was being revoked.
 I logged onto my server, removed the phishing directory and then checked the bash history
 to see if they did anything else.
 It would compromise my server anymore.
 Remember though, folks, they're going to change these bash logs and the other logs.
 I also take a look at the SSH logs, saw that it wasn't a brute force attempt.
 They just logged, they logged right into my server with the right credentials the first
 time.
 I then began to think about what software I had installed on that server and narrowed
 it down to webmen.
 When I checked the change logs on the webmen site, I found that my version of webmen was
 below 1PS, been right to save the day at our office many times, it's great to be able
 to tell a high ranking university professors were able to save their hard drive and their
 millions of dollars of grant applications and upgraded immediately.
 What's below 1 me?
 I don't understand.
 My version was below 1.1, oh my gosh, and upgraded immediately.
 This painful lesson has taught me that it doesn't matter what kind of software you have
 installed on your server.
 It has to be updated on a regular basis.
 After this was all over, I set up a script that would check for software updates every
 day.
 Many Linuxes do this now, by the way, automatically, and then email the list to me so I can keep
 track of what needs to be updated and as a reminder to update my server.
 Thank you for security now.
 I love the show.
 Keep up the great work now.
 I'm going to read the footnote, which I shouldn't have read when I read it.
 PS spin right has saved the day at our office many times.
 It's great to be able to tell high ranking university professors that we are able to save
 their hard drive and their millions of dollars of grant applications.
 Another happy customer.
 So that was an interesting posting, I thought it was really interesting.
 I wanted to include it because we mentioned webmen as a vulnerability and here from all
 the evidence that he has cited and his own forensic analysis, he's told by his ISP that
 he's running a PayPal phishing site on his server that he had no knowledge of and then
 goes in and tracks it down to them using SSH to log on to his server remotely.
 And then by further pursuing the parsing of his logs, he sees that they logged in perfectly
 the first time, no brute force into his SSH tunnel, but first time they were able to get
 a command shell.
 And from then there, they were able to do everything that they wanted to.
 So really interesting.
 It was caused by exactly what we were talking about two weeks ago, a cross site scripting
 vulnerability.
 And he's a happy spin right here.
 What more could you ask for?
 Very cool.
 College student Brian Kay at Penn State has an interesting dilemma.
 I've been playing around in my Mac lately and I've recently installed Vista into bootcamp
 to see what's going on with this latest version of Windows.
 Of course.
 Why not?
 I was also playing around with shields up.
 I noticed that the IP it showed is the same IP I have in my computer.
 I'm in a college dorm and I had to give them my Mac address and such to set up while they
 gave me a static IP to use.
 Seeing this IP on shields up makes me wonder, am I not running behind a router?
 Do I have a direct connection to the internet?
 Should I be worried?
 I know when I'm on campus wireless, they make a use of VPN, but that doesn't work from
 the dorm.
 I'm secure, even though I'm running a Mac.
 Why is he seeing his real IP address?
 Yeah, that's a great question.
 This is evidence of the fact that he is not behind any sort of a net router.
 When he's using shields up, when any user is using shields up, the IP that shields up
 shows, you know, my free security testing facility is the public IP from which shields
 up sees a connection coming to the server.
 That should be the router address, right?
 That would be the router address, exactly.
 So any home user behind a router, whereas their computer will be 192.168.something.something,
 the shields up will show you, you know, the public IP, 38.172 or, you know, whatever your
 public IP is.
 But something that's not a 192.168, it's not 10.172, it's a public facing IP.
 The fact that his IT, his campus IT people wanted his Mac address means that they probably
 are running a DHCP server where they have built a database of associated IPs and Macs.
 So when, so he's, his computer is set up to obtain an IP address automatically.
 When it does that, it says, here's my Mac address.
 What's my IP?
 Well, they're giving him a public IP, which they've associated with his Mac address.
 That's wrong.
 Is that misconfigured?
 No, it could just be the way their campus network is set up.
 I mean, they must have a big network where they can afford to give public IPs to the
 students in dorm room.
 They have what we call static IPs.
 Yeah.
 I mean, it's like a, it's a cool real IP.
 Now the problem is, of course, you don't have the protection that we're pretty much
 now taking for granted is going to be between users and the internet in the form of a Nat
 router.
 So it does mean that, that, you know, he asks, what does this mean?
 Am I vulnerable?
 Well, you know, it means you are entirely dependent upon your software firewall running
 in your computer.
 And that would make me nervous given that, you know, Nat routers are now in the $49 range.
 It's so simple to stick a Nat router on your IP connection from one in his room.
 Exactly.
 Run your own local Nat router.
 And then you get the advantage of Wi-Fi if you've got a wireless Nat router.
 And we know how you want to be secure that way.
 And then also being able to plug multiple computers in to your own little personal local
 router.
 So that's definitely what I would do.
 It's funny, you know, I mean, maybe it's that I'm obsessed about security, but Leo,
 the idea of, you know, a direct unfiltered, un-napped protected connection, I mean, even
 you sound like it makes you a little nervous.
 Well, it does.
 Yeah.
 If it's really the case, I mean, isn't it possible that he could have some, he could
 still be protected, but he's got an IP, a static IP address.
 Well, yeah, good.
 That's a very good point.
 The campus could have a firewall, which is, which is firewalling all inbound traffic.
 Yeah.
 They must be doing that.
 I mean, it's in state.
 It's not some is not podunk state.
 No, it's Penn State.
 They are.
 I'm sure they're doing that.
 I can't believe they wouldn't be.
 But of course, we know we could never assume that anymore.
 A lot of strange things happen in universities.
 Yeah.
 Wow.
 Victor, you know, oh, I know why they do this.
 Well, they don't need to do it to do this.
 But I think maybe this is kind of to tell people, hey, if you are going to do file sharing
 or anything illegal on our network, you're kind of out there with your personal IP address.
 Maybe that's why they do that.
 Oh, it's interesting.
 Yeah.
 Because you know they're filtering it.
 Question, anyway, I just just thought question 12, Victor Rodriguez of our Vada Carla Rado
 asks, I was listening to your episode about cross-site scripting.
 Couldn't help but wonder why someone would want to use my browser when I visit a given
 website to seek out and find cross-site scripting vulnerabilities on other websites.
 Oh, he's talking about what was it?
 Jokeo?
 Joke it?
 Yep.
 Why wouldn't they?
 Jicto.
 Why wouldn't they just seek out those vulnerabilities from their own systems?
 Well, of course, the reason is that they would rather not expose themselves to anyone backtracking.
 And essentially, they've turned your machine not into a malicious traffic generating zombie.
 Like so many DDOS or spam generating systems are, they've turned your machine, your browser
 using browser scripting into a vulnerability scanning system.
 So that if anyone sees, hey, wait a minute, somebody is poking at my web server looking
 for cross-site scripting, and other sorts of vulnerabilities, well, as we know, it's
 not possible to spoof a TCP connection.
 You can spoof UDP packets like are used in floods, but you have to actually have your
 real IP connection known by the server who you are trying to exploit.
 So if they've got logs, they'll lock down your IP and could pursue you directly, saying
 we know what IP you are, they got a court order to force your ISP to release your personal
 data and the FBI will be knocking on your door.
 Well, there's a second value is you can assign an army to this task and exactly have a much
 more success because you've got millions of people out there doing your work all working
 in parallel.
 Yep.
 It's the ultimate distributed computing without your permission.
 Yeah.
 Steve, we've got through 12 and we're on to episode 89 next week.
 Wow.
 You're going to get to 100 before we know it.
 I'm going to have to work on some great prizes or something.
 I'm sure we can come up with something.
 I'll tell you, I will, I will say one thing.
 We want to thank our friends at a Staro corporation who've been with us, you know, I have to look
 and see what episode they started on, but more far more than half.
 They've been with us.
 Episode 39.
 I know that.
 Holy moly.
 Wow.
 I'm impressed.
 Anyway, well, they've been with us now for 49 episodes and for good reason.
 Almost a year.
 We're coming up on a year actually because people who would care about security know
 about a Staro or at least they ought to.
 The Astaro security gateway is the greatest mix of security technologies, best to breed,
 open source and commercial software covering all aspects of security in a simple, easy
 to use device.
 Boy, talk about the power you get email security, including anti spam, anti fishing, dual virus
 protection for email, transparent encryption.
 So your clients don't even know that they're using email encryption.
 You get web filtering like content filtering, anti virus for the web, anti spyware, instant
 messenger and peer to peer control.
 You get network protection to firewall, remote access, SSL VPN intrusion protection.
 I mean, this is all in one simple appliance.
 And not only that, as your business grows, so can a Staro because a Staro will scale to
 up to 10 gateway devices.
 Pretty amazing adding a huge amount of capacity as you grow.
 By the way, home users, you also can use a Staro absolutely free download the free software.
 You get now with a version seven, not only get the base license, you get all subscriptions
 and a star up to date, absolutely free to a STRO.com to schedule a free trial in your
 office.
 So you can see how great this is.
 And it really is great.
 Call of 877 the number four AST ARO 877 for a Staro.
 They have won in in 2006 best product of the year from so many magazines.
 I don't even have time to list them.
 They are really the best AST ARO dot com.
 Thanks so much for supporting security now.
 What do we do?
 We had no we want to do next week or next week we're going to talk about the dramatic
 breakthrough in Wi-Fi security cracking, the the web protocol, which used to take a long
 time to hack now takes less than a minute.
 Oh boy.
 Well, we're going to talk about how that works.
 Great.
 More security coming your way.
 We thank you so much.
 Steve Gibson, grc.com is a place to go for the 16 kilobit versions of this show, the transcripts,
 the great free security software Steve offers like shields up, secureable, and of course,
 we forget the great spin right, the ultimate disc recovery and maintenance utility.
 If you've got a hard drive, you need spin right, get your copy at grc.com.
 Steve have a great week and we'll see you next time.
 Sounds great.
 I'm on security now.
 Security now.
 Security now.
