 NetCasts you love from people you trust.
 This is Twit.
 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by AOL Radio at aol.com/podcasting.
 This is Security Now with Steve Gibson, Episode 89 for April 26, 2007, Weft Insecurity.
 Security Now is brought to you by Astaro, makers of the Astaro Security Gateway, on the web
 at www.astarro.com.
 And by Nerds on Site, looking to grow your IT service business, find out how Nerds on
 Site can help visit, I want to be a nerd dot com.
 Time to gather together to talk about security, something very important today in computing
 and the internet.
 And of course, there is no one I'd rather talk to about security than my trusted friend,
 Steve Gibson of grc.com, the man who's done more to secure individuals, I think, than
 anybody else with.
 Have you hit 50 million yet?
 I just looked at it this morning, as a matter of fact, Leo, we're at 49.2 million uses
 of shields up.
 So, yes, we're approaching.
 That's going to be really neat to actually cross the 50 million uses of shields up.
 And as Steve will say, but I just want to reiterate this, that if you hit it like three
 times in the same hour, that's one that counts as one.
 Steve's talking about these are kind of unique hits, you know, at different, you know, way
 different times and so forth.
 This is people actually using it.
 That's really amazing.
 Yeah, it's actually it's a good count because I keep track of in a list the IPs of the most
 recent 4000 actually know for K of course, 4096 being a programmer.
 And if the same IP is still in the list, I move it to the front of the list and don't
 count it again.
 So, you know, and with about 25,000 people per day, you know, so it's going to last maybe
 four hours.
 And so if someone comes back after that length of time, I think it's reasonable to count
 them again.
 Yeah, they've done something and they've checked changed their system and are trying
 it again.
 Right.
 But if they're if they're poking around at the site, I only count them once.
 So it's, you know, I'm really happy with that number.
 And it's, you know, in fact, someone in the UK, just yesterday, I got a link, I saw posted
 in our news groups has done a he's like an IT guy with one of the major UK magazines.
 Did a user's guide to shields up because he was tired of answering the same questions
 over and over and over.
 Hey, that's handy.
 That's very nice.
 Although I have to say the online help in shields up is so good that I almost always
 refer people.
 I just say, Hey, read once you get your results, read what Steve says about it because it's
 everything you'd ever want to know about port checking and all that stuff.
 Right.
 I mean, it's all in there.
 Hey, before we get going, I know today we're going to talk about web and the recent developments
 in a web insecurity.
 Yeah, I was thinking of calling the episode maybe even more badly broken.
 Well, broken, broken worse, even more badly.
 Of course, I do want to tell everybody we're brought to you as always by a star.
 Oh, the good folks at a star who make the incredible star security gateway hardware.
 And of course, as I've been saying, version seven is out now, which adds some nice new
 features, including server side appliance side, I guess you should say, decryption and
 encryption and digital signature of email using S MIME and open PGP.
 They also have VP SSL VPNs now, they've got scalability via clustering and for home users,
 they've extended the ability now you not only could you you could always download the software
 for but now you get a base license, including all subscriptions in a startup to date for
 up to 10 IPs, 10 users or 10 or 1000 concurrent connections.
 So if you've got a old computer lying around, this is the ultimate really great use for
 full security gateway software that you can use, including spam subscriptions, antivirus
 and any spyware subscription, so it's really useful.
 Starro, A S T A R O dot com, or you give them a ring at eight, seven, seven, the number
 four A S T A R O, and you could set up a free trial of the star security gateway in your
 business.
 It is really the name in security appliances, a starro at a starro dot com.
 We thank them for their support of security now.
 Do we have any Rata addendum something?
 No, we don't have any Rata.
 We did it.
 We did a Q and A last week, so we didn't have any Rata from that.
 But I do have a really fun testimonial that refers to the testimonials that we've received
 in the past from Spinrite from a security now listener that I want to share with people
 because this is, you know, this is the kind of story that I that really makes me feel
 neat about Spinrite.
 You get these stories every day, it seems like there.
 Well, yeah, I'm, I, yes, kind of neat, I mean, it must make a lot of them.
 It's, it is neat.
 This is from a guy named Duncan Smith, who is one of our listeners, and he says, Dear
 Steve and all at GRC, I've listened to so many of these testimonials on security now,
 and now have reason to join the ranks of a static customers with yet another quote Spinrite
 saves the day, a quote, story, my mother, and I think this, he must be English from, from
 some of the idioms he uses, you'll, you'll hear this and what he says, is my mother retired
 several years ago and enrolled in part time classes for horticultural degree.
 For the, for the past six years, she's been working away.
 And for the last nine months has been undertaking her final dissertation to celebrate the recent
 completion, parens, but not submission, uh, oh, of the dissertation.
 Oh, and I was right, oh, nine months of work on our dissertation, you know, where this
 is going.
 Yeah.
 So he says, uh, uh, to celebrate the recent completion of the dissertation and my father's
 recent retirement, they embarked on an eight week trip of a lifetime to New Zealand.
 Last night I got the dreaded phone call, her PC was stuck in a never ending loop of restarts,
 never making it into windows.
 The hard drive was also making unusual noises, unquote, and her local PC store as well as
 a computer savvy neighbor had suggested the hard drive was beyond repair, wow, and all
 was lost.
 He had no backup and the PC contained all, all her degree work and all their digital
 pictures from that, from that holiday and several years of other holidays.
 As if the, as if the, the thesis weren't enough.
 Yeah.
 Oh geez.
 It's all the photos.
 So it gets me, the people are not backing up, just drives me crazy.
 It's just, you know, it's because of course, you know, I've lived with Spinrite and these
 kinds of problems and solutions now for I think like 19 years, 20 years.
 It's just that the computer works today and they turn it on tomorrow and it works and
 they figure, well, it'll work day after tomorrow.
 I mean, it's just, you know, it low, it truly lulls you in to sort of a false sense of security.
 And the other thing is I think when the computers knew it contains nothing of value that isn't
 obviously immediately replaceable.
 And over time, that value that it stores grows slowly.
 And so there's never really an event where it's like, Oh, now I really need to start
 backing up.
 It just creeps up on you.
 Yeah.
 And there's no warning.
 There's no warning.
 Anyway, so he, so he finishes.
 He says, I've been considering purchasing Spinrite for a while.
 So I had no hesitation in grabbing a copy before driving over to get the PC, setting it off.
 I went to bed hoping the testimonials I have heard were as trustworthy as the advice you
 give on security now.
 I awoke this morning to find Spinrite had finished its business restarted the PC and
 it booted first time one hour later, all documents were backed up and I am and I am
 seriously in my parents good books as he puts it.
 If God or Steve Gibson gives you a second chance, take it.
 So he said, he said, I'm serious in my seriously in my parents good books, perfect timing as
 I have a house move coming up and my wife and I need some extra babysitting for my daughter.
 Now there's a testimonial and he said, many thanks for the great product and for all the
 work you put into security now that's the sign sign Duncan Smith.
 Spinrite gives you babysitting time.
 That's the headline.
 I like it.
 I like it.
 That's hysterical.
 You know, it reminded me with a chill kind of what happened to my wife on her master's
 thesis.
 She didn't have security now.
 It was lost.
 And she's been right.
 That means right.
 And she didn't have security now either, but she didn't have spin right, which is what
 more to the point it was lost and and she actually had to take that whole year over again.
 So it can it can go really badly.
 Oh, no kidding.
 Yeah.
 Wow.
 Yeah.
 She she got an incomplete for that and had it had to do it all over again.
 Oh, I know it says a chill just thinking about it.
 She did it.
 She got her a degree and she got her her license.
 But boy, I mean, that's talk about dedication after that.
 Well, remember this is maybe why she never uses computers now.
 Exactly.
 Exactly.
 Well, and it takes one event like that and then you you back up.
 You realize, okay, this, you know, I really have to, I really have to keep back up.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 All right.
 Let's talk about you.
 You want to talk about ebooks a little bit, right?
 Well, you know, it's funny we become the ebook guys, haven't we?
 I've been an ebook guy for a long time and I could never go with it because you were
 reading them on these little tiny palms, right?
 So you and I both bought a Sony e-reader and we've been spending a lot of time talking
 about it.
 We're not going to worry folks.
 We're going to get right to web in a second.
 We were getting a lot of great email for people suggesting other places to get free
 ebooks, websites and so forth.
 There really is a, even for the Sony, there's a lot of choices out there.
 So yeah.
 Yeah.
 And I did want to mention your reaction so far to Gibraltar Earth.
 Oh, I love it.
 You know, I'm always a little nervous when, you know, I read stuff that hasn't gone through
 a regular publisher and isn't on the book stands and stuff.
 And I don't know why I shouldn't be.
 This is great.
 This is great.
 Michael McCollum deserves all praise.
 I can't wait to read.
 I bought the entire is trilogy and the second Gibraltar son about halfway through Gibraltar
 Earth.
 It's fascinating.
 I can see where it's going to.
 Well, and, and Sun is, yes, Sun is the second in that trilogy.
 Oh, it's a trilogy.
 Oh, good.
 Actually, yes, I finished book two and, and I wrote to Michael and I said, you know, you
 have built such a cool universe, please don't be in a hurry to finish it.
 Good.
 I mean, I'd liked him to have two more books, but he's like, I don't know if I've got
 that kind of how I felt about fallen dragon was don't, you know, gosh, you've created
 something here.
 Yeah.
 And we all want to go back there.
 So don't stop.
 You know, and I, I can say Leo is you have so much good reading ahead of you.
 And you know, this is now, so I've read over a thousand pages on the Sony ebook reader,
 and I'm very comfortable with it.
 One thing though, I've only had, it's only gone down through the charges twice, which
 is more, you know, faster than it said it would, I have to say, um, have you listened
 any music?
 Nope.
 It's just just reading.
 Um, and it's not charging.
 I'm thinking maybe the first time it didn't fully charge because it's, I don't know if
 there's something wrong with my charger or whatever, but it doesn't seem to be.
 I'm going to leave it overnight tonight and see what happens.
 It doesn't seem charging.
 Have you had trouble with the charger?
 The red lights coming on.
 Yes.
 Um, I've had the same experience again.
 This is, you know, first generation and this, and this is unusual for Sony to have a problem
 like this, but what I noticed is I'll plug the book in to its charger.
 Red light comes on, red light goes off.
 Yes.
 It's still not charged.
 Right.
 That's what happened.
 And if you just do it again, it like kicks it a little bit more.
 Okay.
 All right.
 So I know, yeah.
 Although I've been reading with one bar for like five days now.
 So, I mean, you know, I, so maybe that's why I had to charge it again is that I didn't
 really fully charge it the second time around.
 That's probably.
 I think you probably.
 Yes.
 Exactly.
 Is it probably didn't work now?
 It happens from a, from a electrochemical standpoint that, that lithium ion batteries are
 a little tricky to charge because the, the charge stop point is set by, by the terminal
 voltage on the battery and that can be tricky to get right.
 That is, it's possible for it to like get a little false trip.
 Now lots of.
 It's happening.
 Yeah.
 Obviously, this is a problem everybody else has solved and so who knows?
 Maybe it's because it's got Linux in there and it's, you know, missed and interrupted
 or something.
 But it's certainly the case that if you, if you try a couple times, you'll end up getting
 a charge.
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 I mean, I, I have to say the ability to carry it with me everywhere at such a small package
 and have so many books in there is really, really great.
 Yeah.
 And thanks to Michael McCollum for, for going to the extra effort to make it work on the
 Sony reader. Thank you, Michael. I appreciate it.
 That's really great.
 Highly recommended sci fi dash A Z dot com.
 And for what it's worth, I've had other feedback from people who are similarly loving his books.
 Is he published?
 Uh, does he have other novels that are published or these published or is he'd all self published?
 Well, it's, uh, he's got a publisher for a long time.
 He was using a regular publishing channel, but he ended up getting the rights back.
 I don't know if they expired or whatever, but he's, he literally now, I mean, you can buy
 his books and paperback and he's got a complete printing system, a whole binding system.
 So the books that you buy from him, he has printed and, but I think as far as I know,
 they're professionally, you know, put together.
 So it's cool.
 It's 100% of the revenue from that less the direct cost of, of printing books, right?
 Which even more from the, from the, the, uh, ebooks, the exact, and he deserves it.
 They're really good books. I can't wait for the third or fourth, maybe in the Gibraltar
 series. And I can't tell you Lee. I mean, the entire stuff is even better, I think.
 Oh, really? Oh, I can't wait. Yeah. I think that what the other will say one more thing
 and then we're going to talk about security. Uh, what's exciting about this is it, it is,
 these readers make it possible for anybody to be an author because the cost of publishing
 is so low. And if, as these readers proliferate, as I hope they will, uh, you, you'll have
 a large universe of readers for virtually no cost, the cost of bandwidth alone. And exactly.
 And of course the internet is the other enabling factor, right? It's just, it's going to be
 exciting. I love these times, I must say. Now the internet is also a scary dark, a forbidding
 place with evil men desperate to get into your system. No, not really, but, but anyway,
 you sometimes it helps to think of it that way in terms of security. And that's what's
 going on with web right now. What did fill us in on this here? Well, we haven't talked
 about web for a long time, uh, back on episode 11, which was what 78 episodes ago, uh, back
 in October of '05 was our coverage of it. The actual title was, was bad Wi-Fi security.
 And that was really the, the, the last time, although we've, we've mentioned it in passing
 many times since, but it's the last time we really gave strong coverage to the problems
 with the original encryption for Wi-Fi, which was called WEP, which is an acronym, WEP,
 which stands for wired equivalent privacy. And the goal of WEP was, and the reason they
 named it wired equivalent privacy was they, they wanted to create a level of privacy for
 radio Wi-Fi that was, you know, they felt was as strong as if the communication was wired
 as if it was wired equivalent. Well, they really fell far short of that. And a couple
 weeks ago, a new group, a three German guys at a technical university in Germany published
 a paper where they demonstrated how they had figured out that they could crack WEP, that
 is to say, determine the encryption key being used in under a minute.
 Oh, that's not good. Now, it's a before. Well, it, it took much longer. In fact, it took
 on the order of five million packets captured. That was the key. You had to have a certain
 amount of data before you could crack it. Exactly. These guys have brought that down
 to about 40,000 packets from five million. Two orders of magnitude. That's quite a bit
 faster. It's, it's a huge gain. So now this is still significant. You know, people might
 be saying, Oh, yeah, what, you know, we all have WPA now. So who cares? Well, the fact
 is that the demographics show that no encryption is being used on 25% of wireless networks.
 WEP is still in use in half of wireless networks. And the good, virtually uncrackable WPA encryption
 is only in use in about a quarter of wireless networks, which is to say that the fact is
 75% of wireless networks today are either have no encryption or WEP encryption. And only
 25% are essentially uncrackable. And as we've said many times, those WPA networks, that
 is to say Wi-Fi protected access networks, they are only as good as the quality of the
 password because their weakness is brute force cracking of the password. WEP's weakness is
 far more extreme. So, so to paint the picture, what this means, for example, is if you were
 using a, a, a, a hotspot where you were using WEP encryption as many do because it's because
 it was the original encryption built into Wi-Fi, you always have WEP. You may default the fall
 back, the last resort. Exactly. And in many cases, it's the, it's what is like first on
 the menu. It's the one that the system will choose for you. I mean, for a perfect example
 of this Leo is back when we were originally telling people, please, please, please, do
 not use WEP, use WPA. We got a lot of email from people saying, I would love to use WPA,
 but my, you know, my wasa gaza doesn't support it. Or, you know, my Tivo won't support it.
 Or my this or that. I mean, they were like all these problems with, with people trying
 to use WPA. I mean, there are even people who have now dual Wi-Fi, one with WPA and
 one with WEP, where like they use WEP with their Tivo because they really don't need
 encryption, but they'd like to keep their neighbors from using their Wi-Fi. And so you
 could argue that WEP, well, actually until a couple of weeks ago, WEP was probably good
 enough for, for keeping, you know, your, your, your neighbors off of your network. Now it
 really isn't any longer. Well, is this fairly easy to do? I mean, is it just a program you
 download off the internet and it does it or? Yes. Proof, proof of concept code is now posted
 on the internet, which means it'll be in cane and able or one of these tools any minute now.
 Yes. Well, it is, it is in the, um, the aircrack suite, which, which is fast. Exactly. It took
 no time. And the reason this is significant is it's one thing to say, yes, I can get into
 WEP with 5 million packets. Well, 5 million packets. That's a lot of packets. You have
 to sit out in the curb a long time and you'll be noticed. You, you need to bring your, your
 sleeping bag. Right. If you're going to do that here is a 40,000 faster. I mean, now,
 now 40,000 packets, you could say, okay, well, that's still a lot of traffic. Well, let's,
 let's walk through how this is done because what, what I love about this and about talking
 about this specifically is that it brings, it brings out many of the, of the foundations
 we've laid before about the way crypto stuff works. The first, in the first case, you need
 lots of packets. Well, well, and you need not only lots of packets, but you need packets
 that you know something about. Well, the, the way that ethernet is glued together is
 with what's called ARP, the address resolution protocol with, with, and what ARP does, and
 we've discussed this in the past. So if anyone wants to go back and like listen to an episode
 all about ARP, in fact, where we talked about how ARP can be abused in order to create man
 in the middle attacks. It's one of the reasons, for example, in a hotel setting, you do not
 just want to plug yourself into the hotel network, because it's, it's trivial for someone
 to intercept your traffic due to ARP spoofing. Anyway, the way ARP functions is any money
 on the ethernet sends out a broadcast to the entire network saying, I need the MAC address
 associated with this IP. But what ARP does, and there are reasons called address resolution
 protocol, it resolves the relationship between IP addresses and MAC addresses on an ethernet
 LAN. All ethernet LAN endpoints, that is all NICs network interface cards, they actually
 are addressable by their MAC address, because the IP protocol is just one of many protocols
 that they could support. You could be token ring, you could be, you know, any of a number,
 you know, for example, IPX, SPX, they, the old novele protocol, all these things run
 on ethernet. So the IP protocol needs a way to figure out which adapter card on the ethernet
 we want to send our data to. So, so a station on in, in, in whether you're wired or wireless
 will say, we'll broadcast to everybody who's, who's the MAC address for this IP, for example,
 the gateway IP in order to send the traffic to the gateway in order for it to get routed
 out of the LAN onto the internet. The, the, everybody receives this request and the one
 proper, presuming there's no ARP spoofing going on, the one proper adapter that has
 that IP responds saying, I'm the guy with this MAC address. Okay, so all you have to
 do in order to, in order to generate a lot of packets is broadcast this request all the
 time and you'll get a whole bunch of responses. So you can stimulate it in effect. Exactly.
 You can tickle the network in order to cause it to, to, to just like, you know, flood it
 with this data. Now, what's very cool about ARP, well, cool, except that this is how this
 is a huge leverage for the attackers is that the, the first 12 bytes is never, it never
 changes the first 12 bytes of an ARP request happened to be a, a, a, a, a, zero, three,
 in three zeros, then a 0 8 0 6, a 0 0 1, 0 8 0 0, 0 6 0 4, 0 0 0 0 1. Those are the
 first 12 bytes of an ARP request. The ARP reply has exactly the same bytes except the
 very last byte is a 0 2, which actually is the flag saying I'm a request or I'm a reply.
 So now what we've got is we are able to watch ARP traffic on the network and in fact one
 of the things that one of the many things broken about web is that there's no what's
 called replay attackers blank in there for a second. There is no there's no replay prohibition
 meaning that you can if if we're we're just listening to the network. Now we can't inject
 a packet because we don't know the the encryption key. So what we're able to do is we're able
 to see packets that other people are generating and they will occasionally generate ARP packets
 because this is something that essentially ARP times out and the and then you need to
 renew your knowledge. So when when we see an ARP packet we can capture it and then send
 as many more of that packet as we want in order to generate responses. So we're using
 the same packet we saw once and wept doesn't prevent you from doing what's called a replay
 attack which is to say replaying the same packet over and over and having it validated. WPA
 the good encryption never allows the reuse of an entire packet. So so it has replay prevention
 attack prevention. Wept does not. So we we we capture an ARP packet and we're able to
 identify it by length and and send it back into the network in order to generate lots
 of traffic. So okay. So now we have a whole bunch of these packets. Well, if we remember
 the way WPA works. I'm sorry, not WPA. That's the good encryption wept, the bad encryption
 WEP. The way it works is it uses a a pseudo random number generator, an encryption system,
 a pseudo random stream generator called RC four. RC four is is initialized with an encryption
 key. Typically it's either 64 bits or 128. 128 is is the the large size key obviously
 and provides substantially more protection than the than the 64 bit key. So so 128 is
 what this attack is is cracking. And certainly that's what anybody who didn't have some real
 reason to have weak security, you know, if you're using WEP at all, you would certainly
 expect it to be cranked up all the way. So this 128 bit key is broken into two pieces.
 There's a 24 bit sort of front piece and 104 bit back piece. So 24 plus 104, you get 128,
 so just where the total key length comes from. Well, this 24 bit front piece is called the
 initialization vector that is the or IV for short. What happens is the most adapters just
 use a counter to count this initialization vector upwards change the thus you have a counter
 on the front of the other 104 bits that are not changing, giving you an always changing
 128 bit key. Unfortunately, only the front of it changes not the whole thing. So what
 happens is the way RC four functions is this 128 bit key is used to generate a pseudo random
 stream of bytes. Those bytes are X or with the data. We talked about X or back when we
 were talking in detail about encryption and decryption. The idea is if you have a string
 of randomness and you X or your so-called plain text or unencrypted data with this randomness,
 what you get back out is random. And if you are truly X oring with randomness, there
 is... And this is what's so cool about this is there's no way to decrypt that. If you
 mix plain text with something truly random, what you get back is as random as the original
 random stuff, even though it's been modified by the unencrypted data by the plain text.
 And what's neat about X or is that it's easily reversible. That is you re-exor the encrypted
 text with the same randomness and what falls out is the so-called plain text. That is it
 decrypts. Well, that's cool except it's a problem if you ever use the same random data
 twice. That is if what you're X oring with is not totally random, not truly high quality
 random data, then you've got problems. And this is the main weakness with the wired equivalent
 privacy approach. Since we know the first 12 bytes of our ARP packets, all we have to
 do is X or those first 12 bytes with that is that we see in the air passing by on Wi-Fi.
 We X or that encrypted data with the what we know is the first 12 bytes of an ARP request
 or reply. And what we get back is the first 12 bytes of pseudo random data. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 And so as we get all these packets, we take the packet X or the first 12 bytes and we
 capture the first 12 bytes of pseudo random data for that corresponding key. Now, in the
 the front of the packet is this is this IV, the initialization vector is the is unencrypted
 24 bits of that is changing each time. That has to be unencrypted and on the front of
 the packet because the receiver has to have that in order to add it to the secret 104
 bits in order to make the 128 bit key in order to generate the same pseudo random stream
 of data from the RC4 cipher in order to X or the packets contents. So we're able to stimulate
 the network to flood us with ARP replies. We capture the packets X or the first 12 bytes
 and save the 24 bit IV and the first 12 bytes that we know is generated by the RC4 algorithm.
 Now all of that's been done before. The prior approach for cracking this, the thing that
 needed the five million packets, it was an approach where it required that many because
 it was error prone. If you were it also required that you you were only able to essentially
 crack the key from the first byte then the second byte and the third byte that is to
 say invite sequence. And if you made any mistakes in guessing because these are all sort of
 statistical processes, if you made a mistake in guessing, then you and you realize, wait
 a minute, this doesn't seem to be working, you have to completely backtrack and essentially
 start over again. What these guys did in the paper that they published a couple weeks ago
 was they used a different approach sort of based on the first one but using a different
 style of statistical checking which allows them to determine individual bytes of the
 key with no reliance upon previous bytes and that gives them this tremendous gain factor.
 In cases where they're not able to absolutely determine what a byte of the key is, they're
 able to at least determine what it probably is. That is they may have for example five
 or 10 or even 20 bytes but that's much better than 256 because of course there are 256 possible
 combinations of a single byte. So in the worst case, what they've done is they hugely narrowed
 the number of possible bytes that an individual byte of the key might be and RC4 is so fast
 that they can then test all the keys that are possible even if they can't determine exactly
 what the key is in order to verify that they've got the right byte determined.
 So it's a solar set, it's something you can doable. Exactly. It hugely reduces the set
 because if you had 256 times 256 times 256 times 256 for like if you don't have like
 for four bytes, that's a huge number, much lower, well it's four billion, much bigger
 than 10 times 10 times 10 times 10 which is just 10,000. So it turns out that the speed
 of RC4 that is that makes it possible to test guesses so quickly leveraged with this algorithm
 that they've come up with that allows them to determine the individual, like the most
 probable byte and then second and third and fourth and fifth and sixth probable bytes
 for each byte in the key that gives them their leverage. The result of it of this is
 that if they're able to collect 40,000 packets by stimulating a typical Wi-Fi network in
 about 53 seconds, then in less than three seconds on a medium speed thinkpad they used
 a 1.7 gigahertz Pentium M thinkpad in less than three seconds they can process the data
 they collected and so that brings them to about 56 seconds and they have a 50% chance
 of having cracked the key in an under a minute. If they give themselves two minutes, then
 their probability increases to 98%. So the reason this is significant is that this is
 going to change, this changes the calculus as we were saying before needing five million
 packets means you have to have a motivation for cracking the network.
 I would tell people use WPA, but if you can't, it's okay to use WEP because it's enough
 of a barrier to eliminate all but the most determined hacker. Well, that's no longer
 true.
 Right. In fact, it's almost faster to do this than it is to enter the web key for a network
 that you know.
 Right. It's like, oh, I'll just turn up key, just crack it. Yeah, you know, you type it
 in wrong. It's like, ah, this is faster than than dealing with correcting a typo or like
 going into your, going into your router configuration or your computer. It's like, forget it, just
 crack it. It takes a minute now.
 I'm sure there are videos on the net already showing how to use air crack to a crack web
 in less than a minute.
 Well, and as you might imagine, this news got a lot of attention. And because it, I mean,
 it really does change the calculus. You could now just open your laptop, run your cracker.
 And you can imagine that within, within a month, there will be turnkey tools. It's like, don't
 even bother filling out the web form anymore. Just crack the key because it only takes 60
 seconds.
 Well, I would never do this, but I have to say it's kind of tempting because many is
 the time I've, I've had access points I could have used if I only knew the web key. And you
 know, I mean, if you can't get online the other way, I'm sure there are people not as
 ethical as you and I who would do that.
 Well, we've from time to time, we've made security now predictions Leo and security now prediction
 would be that in a, in a short order, we're going to see some tools that are turnkey easy
 for anyone to use. And it, it really does change the calculus. So the takeaway message
 from this is that if you're using Wi-Fi and it's not WPA encrypted, you, you either a
 don't want to use that, that Wi-Fi network, or you want to make sure that you're providing
 your own encryption, you're using a VPN or you're using HTTPS. So, so, so essentially
 your traffic is running through an independent layer of, of encryption, a so-called, you
 know, we've talked about tunneling a lot. So for example, if you're using Gmail, make
 sure your HTTPS colon slash, slash mail.google.com or Yahoo or whatever, you want to make sure
 that, that you're providing your own encryption because you really, unless you're using WPA
 and that is unless the, the, the network that you're hooked to is using WPA, uh, web is
 just, it's just no longer provides virtually any protection. In other words, treat a web
 access point as an open access point. Because yes, there, there's virtually no difference.
 This podcast is brought to you by nerds on site. Go to I want to be a nerd.com. You too
 can be just like Steve Gibson. Uh, nerds on site is kind of a neat business. It's a,
 uh, it's a support business for people who are in business for themselves. So nerds are
 independent contractors. You're in business for yourself, but not by yourself. You focus
 on your passion and not the burdens of running a business. Really kind of the best of both
 worlds. And by the way, all over the world, seven countries, including Canada, US, Mexico,
 England, Australia, South Africa, Bolivia, I think a couple more. They're looking for
 nerds with competency competencies in a lot of areas. PC and Mac experts, Cisco oracle,
 you name it. They need to fix it technicians, website designers, programmers, product managers,
 sales trainers, security experts, antivirus, gurus and more. They help you run their business.
 They help you get leads. They help you build a business. If you're a nerd and you love
 working with people, go to www. I want to be a nerd.com and register for a nerds only
 meeting in your area today. By the way, you get some neat tools, including spin right.
 I want to be a nerd dot com. Now, wait a minute, you said if you're a nerd and you like working
 with people, that's kind of a contradiction, isn't it? There are such nerds. No, actually,
 those guys that I met, they're definitely very friendly. They're personable, they're
 personable nerds. And you like working with people. When I have only when you have only
 when you have to. All right, Steve Gibson, what a, you know, I'm really glad you covered
 this because it's been all over the place. And as always, you know, I think it's great
 to get the actual facts. Also, I should point out that people talk about WPA being cracked
 or WPA yeah, WPA being cracked. It's not the same, is it? No, no. In fact, the the as we
 said before, WPA, the only known crack for it, because this was designed by real security
 guys as we as as we said it back in episode 11, the the original encryption web encryption
 was designed by engineers. And they had the best of intentions, but it's just, it's just
 embarrassingly riddled with problems. WPA was really designed by crypto people. The one,
 the one attack, and this is not WPA's fault at all. There's literally nothing you could
 do about it. The one attack is the so-called brute force attack, where you capture some
 packets on the network. And then you start using all the virtually every possible decryption
 key. Of course, you don't want to just start unless you really have to do with A and then
 B and then C and then AA and BB and I mean, you know, ABAC and so forth. What you'll do
 is you'll use a dictionary attack trying combinations of common words, hoping that the user did
 something like that. So the only real way to hack into as far as we know, WPA is by by
 using a brute force attack. So what you want is a really unguessable password for WPA,
 something unlikely to be, you know, in anyone's dictionary, just all kinds of random stuff.
 And of course, that's why I created the the passwords page of GRC. If you go to grc.com/passwords,
 I give you over a secured encrypted connection, a bunch of raw material. You can use it as
 is, you can grab some, refresh the page a few times, and then, you know, cut and paste
 to put your own together if you're not comfortable using one that actually came from our server.
 And the technology that I that I developed for that guarantees we will never issue the
 same one twice. So it's impossible for anyone to get that. In fact, I use one directly from
 that page and, you know, it's in a little file on a USB dongle that I carry around whenever
 I want to put another, another system on my own network because Lord knows, I mean, this
 thing is just literally gibberish. And I have, you know, I kind of recognize it visually
 now, but I don't know what it is. If you don't know what it is, I think it's pretty hard
 to guess. If you can't remember it. All right, Steve, we're going to wrap it up. We'll be
 back next week with more security for you. We encourage you to patronize our fine sponsors.
 They keep the show afloat. And we thank them for supporting the show. It's really nice
 to, you know, get your emails to get your donations and to get the supportive sponsors
 to it really makes this all happen. And we thank you all for being so great. I mean,
 what a great audience we've built with this show. And of course, you can catch Steve every
 week on my radio show because he does a little mini security, mini security now on the radio
 show. So we're trying to get the word out to an even larger audience. So on the premiere
 radio networks, I'm the XM satellite 152 Saturdays and Sundays. And you're at a different time.
 So I don't know what time to say. I just rotate your rounds. Cool. Thanks, Steve. We'll
 talk again next week. Right on security.
