 This is Twit!
 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by AOL Radio at AOL.com/podcasting.
 This is Security Now with Steve Gibson, episode 95 for June 7th, 2007, Open ID.
 Security Now is brought to you by Astaro, makers of the Astaro Security Gateway, on the web
 at www.ASTARO.com.
 And by Nerds on Site, looking to grow your IT service business, find out how Nerds on Site
 can help visit, I want to be a nerd.com.
 It's time to talk about security, everybody, yeah, gather around the radio.
 Uncle Stevie's Security Hour has come every Thursday.
 There's a new one, I like that.
 That could be a new title.
 Uncle Stevie's Security Hour.
 I think we better just drop that now.
 Steve Gibson's here from grc.com, the creator of Spinrite, everybody's favorite, certainly
 my favorite, hard drive maintenance and recovery utility, he creates all those great free security
 programs like Shields Up, Decon Bobulator, Shoot the Messenger, Unplug and Pray, the
 click of death, that was one of the first ones, and on and on and on.
 And today, we're going to talk about, you said Open ID, Open ID, yes, in fact, you referred
 to it when we were talking in our multi-factor authentication, one of the two recent episodes
 where we talked about authenticating people, and we were talking about, remember, I was
 making the wish of, boy, wouldn't it be cool if there was some third party, for example,
 that could take something really secure like RSA's secure ID token, which uses the combination
 of a pin and a slowly changing number, a number that changes once every minute.
 And so you had like really strong authentication, yet not every individual place you would
 want to use it, would need their own authentication scheme, essentially, there'd be some third-party
 provider who was doing the authentication with you sort of as a proxy, and then being
 able to say to this target site, yes, we're sure this is Steve, or Leo, or whomever, and
 so it was sort of offload that, well, it turns out that is exactly what Open ID is and does.
 And so we're going to explain it all in the next hour.
 I think it's great because I'm kind of a fan of Open ID, and I'd like to see it more and
 more widespread use because all of these technologies, you know, aren't meaningful unless they're
 especially Open ID, but many of them are not meaningful unless everybody uses them or a
 large percentage of people use them.
 Well, I'll tell you, this thing has all of the feel of the way it's the way it should
 be done.
 Yes.
 And it's got also this, it feels very much like the way the web was originally designed.
 It's got the characteristics in every way I can see of something that's going to be
 very successful, there's a little bit of intellectual property encumbrance that seems yet still
 to be resolved.
 So I think it's a Danish company has about a six year old, some intellectual property
 patent claims over something like this.
 It's like, oh, no, please just give it away.
 And in fact, the Open ID net site explicitly says, you know, we want this to be as unencumbered
 by any intellectual property as it's possible for us to have it be.
 So, you know, let's hope that gets resolved.
 But I guess my point is that this thing has the feeling of the one that's going to win.
 Well, we'll get to that in a second.
 And we also have some addenda and responses to some email from previous shows.
 But before we go much further, I think we should say hello to our friends at nerds on
 site, they are our sponsor and I think they're wrapping up this week.
 They're a time with us and we're very glad to have had them on board nerds on site.
 It's kind of a it's kind of a complicated idea.
 So probably the best thing to do is go to the website.
 I want to be a nerd dot com.
 They're looking for nerds to help service their customers.
 If you've got PC or Mac skills, mad skills, if you know, Cisco or Cisco or Oracle, you
 name it, they need it.
 Everything from fix it technicians, website designers, you don't have to know all of these,
 by the way, any one of these programmers, project managers, even sales trainers, of course,
 security experts, antivirus gurus and more and they love nerds at troubleshoot, tear apart
 and rebuild their own machines in their spare time.
 If you do that, then you, you are definitely a candidate independent contractors, you know,
 which is nice.
 So you're in business for yourself, but not by yourself.
 You focus on your passion and not the burdens of running a business.
 They're all over the world everywhere you can hear my voice.
 And they have a University of Nerdology too, to help you perfect your skills, to hone
 your skills.
 If you're a nerd, you love working with people, go to www.I Wanna Be a Nerd dot com and register
 for nerds only meeting in your area today.
 Great people, a great company, and we really thank them for supporting this show.
 That's nerds on site.
 I Wanna Be a Nerd dot com.
 So we wrap up before we go into this open ID thing, wrap up anything from previous episodes.
 Well, yeah, I have a couple things.
 I'm sort of, remember that I referred to the fact that we're beginning to get comments.
 I mean, really interesting and useful comments from listeners, not just questions.
 So I'm sort of calling this the mailbag portion and I want to get a jingle.
 Exactly, I went a couple weeks without opening the mailbag just because I've been running
 around my wits end at this end and haven't had a chance really to go back and do a lot
 of reading.
 And now that I've done that, I don't know, I'm wishing we were somehow able to share more
 of this than we can.
 Well, next week we get a question and answer session, but I agree with you.
 I think we get such great mail.
 It's so fascinating.
 It really is.
 Anyway, Brad Burke, I want to say his name, Brad Burke Meyer in North Sioux City, South
 Dakota writes, sort of very coincidentally, I tossed this in because of what we're going
 to be talking about today.
 He says, show 94 really sparked my imagination.
 I'd absolutely love to run my own open ID server with secure ID authentication.
 But the problem is, how much does a secure ID installation cost?
 Will RSA even sell it to me without being a business?
 I'm guessing there's a software package you have to purchase and then you can purchase
 secure ID tokens as needed individually or in packs.
 I love to know.
 I love to know.
 But he's right.
 Yeah.
 I'd love to know more about that if you have any idea if this isn't possible to do on a
 personal scale, Steve should start his own open ID plus secure ID business.
 He says, I'd buy.
 You don't have enough to do.
 You need to start.
 Nah.
 That's right.
 I don't have enough projects in the back in the queue.
 Anyway, I just, I wanted to share that because his note was echoed by a number of other listeners.
 And I'm guessing that he's right.
 I don't know.
 I haven't researched it relative to RSA's secure ID, but I'm guessing they've got it
 locked up.
 It's proprietary.
 You need to use something that they've got, you know, complete intellectual property
 protection wrapped around and probably, you know, dripping in crypto so that it's not possible
 to do sort of a free open version that uses their tokens.
 The tokens are so cool that I just purchased a bunch of them and they've got, well, credit
 card ones.
 They got credit cards ones with a little 10 key pad on them.
 I just, I mean, I'm not going to be able to use them for anything because I don't have
 all the other software, but just the idea of something, you know, a little key fob that's
 got a six digit number that changes mysteriously every minute.
 I got just kind of like that.
 So yeah, certainly, you know, high geek factor, but you know, what the heck anyway, Lars Solberg
 in Norway is using the USB fingerprint device.
 I talked about wanting last time.
 You may remember that that I talked about one that I'd seen that was very inexpensive.
 I think it was $30 or something and they know it had a, it had a fingerprint scanner that
 apparently unlocked its contents, but you had mentioned that you guys have looked at that
 probably the same one on the lab with Leo.
 This one was made by Sandis.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 It happened that the day we recorded that podcast, I found the box on my doorstep and that's
 funny.
 And sure enough, exactly as you said, Leo, this thing was dumb in the, in as much as
 it only worked with Windows.
 The good news is I did plug it in.
 It did launch itself, which, you know, always gives us a queasy feeling when, you know,
 software on strangle runs itself.
 I think they're using a U3 like system, but not U3 itself.
 Well, it's not a, it's, it's because I have looked at you three and that just gives me
 the willies because I mean, it's really invasive.
 It's popping up menus and stuff and you can't get rid of it easily.
 Anyway, the, at least the sand disk solution is lightweight, but it still is heavily dependent
 on the PC.
 Well, Lars found one and I will have a link in our show notes.
 It's a by, bioslimdisk.com.
 So www.bislimdisk.com and they've got one that is what I was hoping for.
 It's entirely self contained, no drivers, OS independent.
 Um, well, let, let me just read Lars note, he says long time listener, first mailer during
 the last podcast.
 You said that a USB stick that could just work everywhere with fingerprint authentication
 would be so cool.
 Well, I've got some good news.
 I have that ultimate USB stick and I use it every day.
 You could find it at and he gives the URL bioslimdisk.com.
 It encrypts with AES 256.
 If I remember correctly on board.
 So there are no extra drivers or anything that needs to be installed and it works with
 every OS and device that supports simple USB sticks.
 He said, I even have used it on my TV, which has a USB input on it.
 I just love this thing.
 Uh, he said it was hard to find it, but he did find it.
 It came in the mail and he's had it ever since B.I.O.S L I M D I S K dot com.
 Bioslimdisk.
 Bioslimdisk.
 Bioslimdisk.
 You know, it's, it's, it's, oh, you're right.
 It's bio bio.
 Look at the capitalization on the website.
 It's bio slimd. You heard the music from the website bio slimdisk.
 So now we know.
 Yep.
 Not bioslimdisk.
 Yeah, which doesn't make nearly as much sense.
 Although it's that say bios, which we just sort of tend to lock onto naturally bio slimdisk.
 Okay.
 Got it.
 Good.
 So finally, uh, I got a really neat spin right testimonial that I want to share with people
 from, uh, again, a security now listener, Russ Souter, um, who wrote, I've been a regular
 security now listener since about episode 15.
 And I've loved it to show support for the show and for a little extra piece of mine.
 I purchased spin right a while back without any immediate need for it.
 And we know where this is going, uh, he says, it's sat on my shelf for a while until a good
 friend of mine who's a CPA called me on Friday, March 23rd in the middle of tax season, telling
 me that his server had crashed with all his important client documents still on it.
 Oh, he said, he said I rushed over and checked his backups.
 They hadn't run successfully in two months, but with the hustle of tax season, he hadn't
 bothered to check them.
 So I dusted off my copy of spin right and put it to work on the poor, tired, antiquated
 scuzzy drive inside his four year old server.
 Wow.
 Yeah.
 He says it took until midday Monday, I don't know what day that was he started, but he
 says it took until midday Monday before it finished its job.
 And there were a whole lot of red use showing up, but there were a lot more recovered sectors.
 When it had finished, I took out the spin right CD and sure enough, the system booted
 up and everything was running again.
 It lasted the rest of the way through tax season.
 And by April 16th, we were installing his new Dell server brands with a raid one mirror
 and a complete offsite backup system with reporting and copying all his data from the
 old server without any problems on behalf of my friend and the hundreds of customers
 who now have their 2006 tax returns filed on time.
 Thank you.
 You probably never knew how close they came.
 Well, well, actually, you can tell that they really, you know, they saw the end of their
 life here because I mean, then he went to a, he raid one full mirroring and offsite backup.
 And you know, that happens often is that people will get spin right because they've had like
 a near death experience and it's like, Oh, thank God we're, you know, all they needed
 was like one massive save and then they've learned their lesson and they're like never
 going to be in a situation, even though now they're glad they have spin right.
 They just, they recognize because they've, they came so close to complete loss of everything
 that now they've got to do something so that they're not as dependent on any single point
 of failure as they were before.
 Yep.
 Yep.
 Very good.
 Well, that's not a nice story with a happy ending.
 Although I'd like to see raid five, not raid one, but that's another story entirely.
 Yes.
 Let us move on to the subject at hand, shall we?
 I'm very interested to see what you, what you make of open idea.
 We've interviewed a couple of open ID people.
 In fact, we did on net at night a couple of months ago and I use a number of different
 open ID services.
 And so I've been intrigued by this for a while, but it seems early days.
 It seems like it's not quite useful yet, but you've done some research on how it works.
 Well, it's, it's certainly I agree with you, it's early days in as much as I don't think
 I have yet encountered a single site in my limited browsing.
 You know, I'm not nearly the pervasive web surfer that you and Amber are, Leo, but I
 don't think I've ever seen a site or at least I've never noticed it.
 Now, of course, it's just like anything else.
 You know, you, you learn a new word and suddenly everyone seems to be using that new word and
 you think was it, was no one doing this before I knew what it meant?
 AOL is, AOL is going to use it digs using it.
 We could use it on Twitter.
 It's actually available as a Drupal module.
 Well, now, wait a minute, is Dig actually using it?
 Because I went to dig.
 They're supposed to be.
 Hearing that Kevin had announced he was going to earlier this year and is still not there
 yet.
 Yeah.
 I think AOL is using it now.
 Well, actually AOL definitely is using it and it turns out that they, the way they implemented
 it.
 And I'm going to explain how this is possible is they've said any AOL, you existing users,
 that is your, your existing log on credentials can be used as an open ID authentication.
 So if you have an AOL account, you, you've got a, an open ID.
 Exactly.
 Neat.
 Exactly.
 And AOL ID is an open ID server, which we're all about to explain.
 So, so here's the idea.
 First of all, open ID allows a, what's known as a single sign on capability without something
 like this, we're where we are today, where every site we go to wants our user ID, sometimes
 it's our email address, for example, and then a password.
 And you know, as we've been preaching for a long time, Leo, in order to minimize the risk
 of a single site being malicious, it's, it's good practice to come up with different passwords,
 maybe different usernames and, and not heavily reuse those because again, the danger is you
 are, you're authenticating yourself with each site you visit one on one.
 The reason I was, I was so stoked about the idea, for example, of a secure ID base that
 this is a RSA secure token, is that it's, first of all, it gets the strength of multi-factor
 authentication by bringing something you have, meaning the token, and something you know,
 which would be your matching personal password or, or pin, it would bring that multi-factor
 authentication to the concept of single sign on, meaning that, that there's some other entity
 than the website you want to authenticate yourself with.
 That entity is the one that you build a, an identity or, and a trust relationship with.
 And then the site you want to authenticate with asks that third party, is this really
 that person?
 So this isn't anything new.
 In fact, Microsoft did the, did this AOL has done this before, Microsoft's passport is
 still around, although not particularly vital, but I still use passport on a few sites.
 That was the idea, right?
 You'd have a passport account with Microsoft and then log into Expedia and various other
 sites using that.
 Yes.
 I mean, so you're right.
 It's certainly not a new idea.
 What is fantastic about open ID is that, as I mentioned before, it is absolutely open.
 I mean, open, open, open.
 It's not Microsoft's.
 It's not AOL's.
 Nobody owns it.
 Right, the protocols are all absolutely in the public domain.
 Hopefully this isn't going to run across, or run afoul of anyone who comes along and
 says, well, we actually invented this, because you know how I feel about, you know, people
 inventing things that are neat, but sort of obvious.
 Hopefully there will be, you know, some, some prior, some clear prior use of this concept,
 even if not in this exact implementation that would, that would water down and hopefully
 prevent somebody from locking it down.
 But for example, there are implementations of this in C-sharp, in C++, Java, Pearl, Python,
 Ruby, PHP, ColdFusion, you know, in looking at lists, I'm thinking, wait, no, assembly
 language?
 But I think you could implement it.
 I think I could probably handle that, but okay, so one of the reasons that this, for example,
 this differs from Microsoft's passport is, you know, that was all about Microsoft.
 Open ID is not, and in fact, Microsoft is one of the major people embracing Open ID,
 and planning to integrate it into the system that they've got, which is card space for
 Vista.
 And that's one of card space and Windows will be a topic that we are going to be covering
 here before long.
 But so even Microsoft is saying, okay, passport didn't really take.
 And of course, nothing that is sole provider is going to.
 One of the so cool things about this is that any user can have total control.
 There's no centralized authority.
 Users can choose their own authentication servers.
 You know, I'm avoiding all of the jargon of Open ID because there's a ton of jargon.
 And that's just confusing.
 So I'm going to, I'm going to use general terms that we understand.
 I'm sure this will not be the last time we're talking about Open ID.
 So you know, we'll, we'll drill down into the specifics over time.
 But, but in general, I want to explain how this works, why it's so open, why I really
 think this is the one and, you know, basically what, what problems it has and then the different
 modes it has of operation.
 So, so again, the idea is that this single sign on model is, which is the goal exactly
 as you say Leo with passport is that you would and well, as this becomes more prevalent sites
 would offer you the opportunity of using your open ID if you had one.
 So you could, for instance, come to Twitter.com and we would say, use your Twitter pass password.
 But if you have an open ID password, you can also use that instead.
 Exactly.
 It'd be like, we will accept that too.
 Now, an example of this that many people may be familiar with, for example, is PayPal.
 You know, I'm, I am a heavy web commerce user.
 And I absolutely look for a PayPal option if I'm buying something on the net from some
 random site that I've never worked with before, you know, I, I will always try to purchase
 from Amazon because I would rather lump my, my trust with a single big provider who has
 a ton to lose if they ever screw up the, the security side of things.
 I mean, can you imagine a bigger disaster than, you know, than Amazon's user passwords
 and, and database and purchasing patterns and credit card, everything escaping.
 Say it.
 Say it not.
 Right.
 So one imagines they are being really, really, really responsible.
 Now you compare that to some random mom and pop site somewhere.
 And I mean, I just, I do not want to give them my credit card information.
 Basically enough people feel that way that that puts pressure on them to accept PayPal.
 And so on sites where I can use PayPal, I never fail to do so because there I am giving
 them essentially PayPal is exactly this kind of solution for, for my, my credit information
 where, where I end up bouncing, you know, they bounce me to PayPal.
 I log in there with my PayPal credentials, say to PayPal, yes, I'm me.
 And, and what happened was pay the site where I was sort of sent some shopping cart information
 along with my bounce, my redirection to PayPal.
 I'm talking about this because this is also very much the way open ID works in a couple
 of its simpler modes.
 So now I'm at PayPal.
 I log into PayPal, you know, choose the way I want to pay, do I want to use my credit
 card, my bank account, whatever, say yes, I want you to send money PayPal back to the
 site where I was.
 So PayPal takes the money from my card, verifies it, and, and then bounces me back to the site
 where I was.
 And that site having got authentication from PayPal that basically the money is now theirs
 says, oh, good, we're going to ship your goodies to you.
 And now the comparing this, I want to make one more comparison because I've recently
 become a fan of Google checkout and I prefer it to PayPal because Google has more information
 that they're able to provide and, and, and that is specifically, I don't have to fill
 out all the other stuff about myself because Google's got my shipping address and my billing
 address, whereas PayPal is limited just to the financial transaction.
 So if I'm somewhere and Google checkout is offered, I find that even nicer because I,
 I log into Google and, and I don't have to fill out all the other information.
 And then again, I mentioned this because that's also something that some open ID extensions
 will be, and while I can't currently do and will be used more in the future, that is you're
 able to control a flow of information that, that you control back to that website for,
 to, for example, populate forms with all of your standard boilerplate information after
 you've authorized that site to receive it.
 So so there's, I really see an evolution here and open ID, I'm guessing is going to be the
 one that wins because it is non proprietary, it's completely open and it's, it's extremely
 lightweight.
 Now, the way this works in practice is an open ID that is this, this token, this string
 that a user uses to identify themselves is just a URL.
 It's the, it's a URL of, of a page on the web that they control.
 They or a friend of theirs, you know, uncle Steve or Bob or somebody, it's, or maybe it's,
 you know, a blogging site that offers the ability to, to host open ID stuff.
 One way or another, it's a URL of a page.
 Now they've, they, what I liked about it, you know, you've heard me complain about the
 HTTP colon slash slash www nonsense you in the open ID spec, you specifically don't need
 to provide that because the, the recipient of this token knows to stick all that junk
 on because you're giving it a web page URL.
 So what, so you, so I'm going to a site where I want to authenticate myself with using the
 open ID system for whatever reason.
 So I, I, I put in this string, which is basically somehow to a page that I control, it can be
 my own server, it can be somebody else's doesn't matter.
 So that site pulls that page from the internet and looks for a essentially a tag in the header.
 It looks for an open ID tag, which will contain the URL for the server.
 I have assigned as my open ID authentication server.
 So there's sort of a level of indirection, meaning that I give a tag pointing to my page.
 My page provides the URL for the server that I want this site that I'm wanting to authenticate
 myself to, to go query in order to authenticate me.
 Yeah.
 I've seen this with, so you'd have an open ID provider, but you could have it be your
 own site that, that, that you supply when you log into open ID page.
 Well, yes.
 And in fact, there are, I mean, all of this is open source.
 So there are already, I mean, there's a ton of servers written in PHP and Java.
 There were servers, you know, anybody, you know, you could run one on your computer at
 home with a serving port 80, you know, a standard web port open and easily create your
 own little personal open ID server.
 Yeah.
 But then it's not trustworthy, isn't it?
 Sure, because it's you, yeah, exactly.
 You're controlling it.
 Now, now there are one of the things I want to be clear about, and when we will, as we
 go through the way this protocol works, it is a bare bones protocol.
 That is, and it's why I think it has a chance of succeeding much as the original HTML was,
 you know, oh my goodness, you know, I mean, you could compare to today's web pages.
 You couldn't do anything like that, but it's because it was so simple and it was easy to
 implement and inexpensive and nobody claimed ownership of it.
 Those are the things that that blasted the web into existence and people could like copy
 other people's web pages and they, oh, I'm going to change the color to green, but otherwise
 look, my web page is already done.
 I mean, it was so simple and this protocol has all of those characteristics.
 So the site that I'm wanting to authenticate myself to gets a page whose URL I have given
 it.
 From that, it gets the URL of the server I have chosen as my open ID authentication server.
 It now it takes my little handle and some other information about the transaction that
 is just, you know, sort of a blob of stuff.
 And one of the things it gives the server is the page it wants the server to come back
 to, which will make sense in a second.
 Anyway, so basically it responds and read in a, I should first say that there are several
 operating modes for open ID.
 I'm going to first run through the simplest that requires the least intelligence and implementation
 overhead on the site that I'm wanting to authenticate to.
 And it's very much like the model with PayPal.
 So essentially when I, when I submit my token, my authentication name to this site I want
 to authenticate to and click the button, my browser is redirected after that site picks
 up the URL of my open ID authenticator.
 My browser is redirected to that server with it, carrying with it a bunch of extra information
 from the site that I want to authenticate to, including what, what URL to send me back
 to when we're done.
 Now, so basically now I am my browser is at my authentication server and we can do whatever
 we want to authenticate and this is one of the beauties of this.
 One of the, the reason this thing is so open is that no one is saying what I, my browser
 and my open ID server need to do.
 It could be as simple as establishing a secure connection and using my, for example, an SSLD
 client side certificate to prove, you know, which contains my, my own public key, which
 has been signed by a common certificate authority.
 It could be something like that.
 I could be prompted with a, another log on username and password, I could be asked to
 stick my secure ID USB token into the computer or swipe my finger on my, my PC's fingerprint
 scanner.
 I mean, virtually anything.
 So that's one of the cool things about this is that now I'm having a dialogue with whatever
 authentication provider I've chosen using whatever level of authentication I care about.
 Remember that this is, this is a service for me.
 So no one is imposing any criteria on this.
 Maybe if this is an e-commerce system or I'm wanting to authenticate to my bank, then
 I want a very trustworthy third party authenticator and whatever level of, of trust and authentication
 credentials, I think is sufficient.
 But again, it's all up to me.
 So, so once that's done, once I've satisfied the authentication server that I really am
 me, then the authentication server uses some crypto stuff to to and the information that
 was provided by the site I'm authenticating to basically to redirect my browser back to
 that original site.
 So in that sense, it's like the trip you make to PayPal to authenticate yourself with PayPal.
 But in this case, it's not, it's not an e-commerce transaction, it's sort of a generic authentication
 transaction.
 So now I'm back.
 My browser is redirected back to the site where I want to authenticate myself.
 It is able to look at the essentially the data that came back with me, which it presume,
 excuse me, it presumes is the information that came back from this authentication third party.
 But there's one weakness in the system.
 And that is that all of this came through my browser.
 So we want to make sure the over on the site that I'm wanting to authenticate myself to,
 we need to make sure that this really came from that third party authentication, so server.
 So now the site I want to authenticate myself to creates a direct connection to the authentication
 server and asks that server to validate the signature that it has that has come through
 the browser and does it directly.
 That prevents the client side of this whole little redirection bouncing from being corrupted
 undetectably.
 At that point, the site that I want to authenticate knows that that the server I chose to do the
 authentication has said, yes, this is this person who wants to authenticate and by having
 a direct connection has verified the credentials that came back from the browser and I'm logged
 in.
 So there's three.
 Let me see if I get this.
 There's three sites here.
 One, two, there's my site, which is where I store a credential for myself.
 This is unnecessary, but you could have your site be doing this.
 Yes, you could.
 And that could be the same as the security provider.
 Open ID.
 Yeah.
 Exactly.
 So I use claim ID.com, which is one of many open.
 There's a lot of these guys and they're all trying to have certain value add features on
 top of the open ID.
 There's jite.com.
 There's a claim ID.
 There's quite a few anyway.
 I use claim ID, among others.
 I use Leoville.com as my server.
 And so let's say I'm logging into twit.tv using open ID.
 I would instead of providing with with other credentials, I would just give it Leoville.com
 and in the open ID space, it would then go through Leoville.com towards my to my open
 ID provider claim ID, which would then put up a login page using the claim ID login and
 password.
 I know those credentials claim ID would then say to twit.tv.
 Yep.
 He is who he says he is.
 And I'm logged in.
 Exactly.
 I mean, there's a little back and forth going on there.
 I'm just trying to simplify it right now.
 There are there is a nicer mode.
 I mean, one of the things that's that's cool about this is what I just described was was
 the sort of like the simplest least technology required anywhere approach.
 If you allow some scripting to go on server side and all and maybe client side scripting
 as well, you're able to make a you're able to make a a quicker process where, for example,
 in the model I just showed, you're always bouncing to your authentication server.
 So your whole web browser goes, you know, bounce over to the authentication server where
 you authenticate yourself and then you're bouncing back.
 It is there is extensions to the protocol, which allows that process to be bypassed.
 It's possible for the site you want to authenticate to to create a direct connection initially
 to your authentication server, providing it with your ID saying, do you authenticate this
 person?
 Now, what for example, you could provide a list of sites where you just want de facto
 authentication or a timeout from the last time you authenticated yourself, you know, any
 kind of features.
 And again, what's so cool about this is that it is wide open.
 It is a fertile ground, a sort of a basic structure to support this fertile ground of
 innovation and value added and services at it exactly as you were saying Leo with claim
 ID where, you know, any way people want to have this work, they'll be someone providing
 it and you could easily do it yourself.
 So so the mechanism, for example, might be where for certain sites you that you've identified,
 you don't want to be forced to go through a reauthentication.
 And if, for example, a timeout has expired, then instead a small login window, a little
 browser pop up window could could come up where you do have a connection to your authentication
 server and log in in order to prove your you.
 And then the site you're wanting to authenticate to is able to get that that that updated authentication
 information, confirm it and log you in so it can be nicely transparent.
 And I'm sure that Microsoft will be moving in that direction with Windows where the the
 transaction to the third party server could probably use your window log on credentials
 and maybe, you know, other things on the fly.
 That's a good, that's a good point.
 So if you're logged on to your Windows account, you wouldn't have to anything anything more
 or it would just say, okay, there you go.
 Exactly.
 And so that's kind of neat, but it's going to be, I think, really cool because because
 over time, it's going to get easier to use, but we already and we're going to begin to
 see spreading adoption of this.
 I mean, just as PayPal is becoming more popular and Google checkout is becoming more popular
 because people are more comfortable trusting single sources, this kind of single sign on
 will end up changing the way people use the web.
 And of course, at some point, it will acquire critical mass.
 And so there will be websites under pressure to support this.
 Users are going to say, look, I don't want to have to come up with a username and password
 for your, you know, LinkedIn site.
 I want you to support OpenID and it's going to be so easy to do so.
 No cost incurred anywhere and a fundamentally very secureable technology.
 Now there are some scary things.
 For example, this is all DNS based.
 And we know that DNS isn't the most secure of all protocols, which is putting a mildly
 amazing.
 So there could be a man in the middle attack here.
 Yes.
 So for example, there is the use of strong crypto where necessary.
 OpenID does specify a Diffie-Hellman key exchange at one point in one of its modes.
 And I would argue that you want an SSL connection so that you avoid man in the middle attacks
 and you're going to want to verify certificates.
 But none of that is required, which is sort of good and bad.
 I've seen some people on the web complaining that it's possible to run OpenID in a non-secure,
 in a non-bulletproof mode and you could say, well, yes, fine.
 If I'm just wanting to go to some other blogging site to post a comment and I don't want to
 have to create a log on account for some random blogging site, I'd like to use my credentials
 at my main blogging site in a transportable fashion.
 You could say, okay, they'll make the technology scale with the amount of authentication security
 that you need.
 And again, for something really secure where you're doing your online banking and you're
 not wanting to have to again authenticate individually, well, there you'd want your authentication
 server to require contact over SSL by the site you want to authenticate to require SSL in
 its interaction with you, if any.
 And so again, that's up to the user.
 What's so beautiful about this is it is, you know, that kind of burden, that kind of cost,
 for example, SSL certificates.
 I mean, you know, I have to buy one every couple of years from Veracine and I grumble
 every time I do, it's worth it for me because I want, of course, secure e-commerce for GRC.
 But the nice thing is there are free non SSL open ID servers that are very useful so long
 as users understand what level of security they're providing.
 And certainly there are commercial ones.
 I mean, Veracine has one.
 And there is a, I've got a bunch of links that are in the show notes, Leo.
 So for people who are interested in this, you know, by all means, check out the show
 notes for this episode because there's lots of places.
 And again, you're already an open ID user.
 I have about four of them, but I, but I've ended up settling on claim ID.
 I was going to say that's a little against the principle.
 Well, like, I try stuff out.
 You understand.
 I do.
 And each of these open ID providers has, as I said, you know, as a kind of a come on to
 use their service, they offer different things like claim ID, for instance, has a whole page
 where you can say, I claim this, these pages on the web.
 These are not mine.
 So I use that service and as a, so the open ID is kind of a side benefit to it.
 Yeah.
 It's one of the things that the open ID system identifies itself and it's very clear to explain
 that this is about identity, not trust.
 Yes.
 And that's good.
 That's good to make that distinction, isn't it?
 Yes, because, you know, trust requires identity, but not the other way around.
 You have, you have to be sure about who it is that you're trusting, but, but, but in
 order to identify someone uniquely, that doesn't imply anything about trusting them.
 That just means who they are.
 So it, and so by making that distinction very clear, that's one of the ways that the open
 ID system has sort of kept itself at a lowest common denominator, completely open source,
 completely open spec.
 There are, as you said, there are, there are hundreds of servers all over the world.
 Many of them are, well, probably, I'm sure most of them are free, even the secure ones
 are free.
 Anyway, I think we're going to see this is the system that ends up taking hold and it
 has been thought through carefully.
 It's got the feel of lightweight internet style protocols and it's so open that people
 are going to be building more onto it.
 I wish Microsoft and Apple and Linux would support this in the operating system and that
 would really be fantastic.
 Then when you log in with your secure credential on your operating system, you'd automatically
 have an open ID.
 Yeah.
 I think it's just a matter of time.
 It is, it is relatively new.
 It's only a few years old.
 It's catching on fast and I mean, I look for the day when we're no longer sitting here
 jumbling, you know, individual passwords coming up with, you know, personal password protocols
 and all the stuff we've talked about for managing the fact that to be really secure,
 what you want to, you know, not share your ID, this allows exactly what we've been talking
 about where, you know, you establish a a strong identification, authentication relationship
 with one server and then using an open free protocol, all the other sites on the net are
 able to ask it if you're who you say you are.
 Now, I just want to underscore and you said this, but I want to say it again, this, this
 is not not identity verification in any way.
 You can create an open ID that says you're Steve Gibson.
 It's just a way of having a single password for all the sites you visit.
 It's not, it's not like a PGP signature.
 It's not, there's no web of trust as you point out.
 There's no verification.
 Well, now a perfect example though of, of an extension to this would be you could imagine
 a commercial service that wanted to provide exactly that act, you know, full industrial
 strength identity verification, so it would, it would claim that that's what it's going
 to do.
 It's not going to ever say it, it, it has identified someone where that person hasn't
 first gone through some rigorous protocol for establishing their true identity with that
 service.
 So in the same way, for example, that GRC every few years in order to get a, an SSL certificate,
 I have to re-approve to their assign that I, me, you know, Gibson Research Corporation,
 a corporation still in good standing in California, blah, blah, blah, and all this stuff in order
 to get that GRC.com certificate that allows me to establish a secure connection so that
 people who connect to my server know that it's really me.
 Similarly, you could have a service that is going to go put, put users and users, I mean,
 you know, individual people through some sort of similar ringer so that if you use them
 as your authenticator, you are, and the only way they will authenticate you is if they've
 proven your identity beforehand, then that's a perfect example of additional features built
 on top of this system.
 Right.
 Right.
 So that's exciting.
 I hope it does take off.
 Of course, it's meaningless unless sites start using it if you know, Amazon starts using
 it and travelocity and Expedia, you know, the sites that you shop at LL Bean, whatever
 wherever it is that you go, then that becomes exciting.
 I'd love, you know, if Amazon would get behind something like this, I think that that would
 be enough to kind of put it over the top.
 Well, it certainly does need that kind of ubiquitous support, but I remember as I'm sure
 you do Leo, the early days of the web before virtually everyone in the world was on the
 web and it was like, well, I mean, wherever we used to talk about the chicken and egg,
 well, yeah, maybe this will take off, but, you know, unless the things I really want
 are on the net, then why and why are people going to go on the net or like, like put themselves
 on the net before it really exists?
 How is it going to achieve critical mass, blah, blah, blah?
 Well, it just happened because it was so inexpensive to do it.
 And at some point, companies had to be on the internet or they were going to get left behind.
 And although there isn't the same sort of your here or your notness to this and there
 are like other ways to authenticate, I can see that pressure will be put on sites once
 open ID becomes the way people want to authenticate themselves.
 Well, I'd like to put some pressure on you, our listener, to take a look at a star.
 I was out for a segue, our great sponsor, Staro makes the star of security gateway.
 And now a version seven is out and man, I have to say, they have really improved what was
 already a great product, adding things like centralized server side, a gateway side email
 encryption so that your users don't even know they're using encryption, but they get
 encryption decryption, even digital signatures based on S Mime and open PGP.
 I imagine they'll implement open ID at some point in this.
 That makes perfect sense.
 Really is a great way to do it.
 They've got secure remote access via SSL VPN as well as the more traditional forms.
 You also have scalability via clustering.
 Their active active clustering enables a low distribution for as many as 10 star of security
 gateways eliminating the need to install additional load balancers.
 It really is amazing plus if you've got the home license, it's absolutely free.
 You get now you get a star up to date as well as their antivirus and anti spyware and it's
 anti spam and all the tools free free used to be 79 euros.
 So get it free downloaded at staro.com A S T A R O dot com.
 And if you want to try it out in your business, absolutely free call eight, seven, seven, the
 number four A S T A R O and you could try the star of security gateway in your business.
 I use one it is so great is just bulletproof A S T A R O dot com.
 We thank them for their support of security now.
 So next week we're going to answer questions Q and A episode number 20.
 Yay.
 I'm so happy.
 I love doing those Q and A's.
 Meanwhile, you can of course get a 16 kilobit version of this show.
 As always, from Steve site, GRC dot com.
 He has transcripts there, show notes and more that's GRC dot com slash security now.
 You can also of course get his great program spin right everybody's favorite.
 My favorite this recovery and maintenance utility S P I N R I T E. It's available from
 GRC dot com.
 While you're there, check out shields up on us free security utilities.
 Steve will adjourn and get back together with uncle Stevie's our own security next week.
 Have a good week.
 Thanks Leo.
 Security now.
