 "This is Twit."
 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by AOL Radio at AOL.com/podcasting.
 This is Security Now is Steve Gibson, episode 97 for June 21st, 2007, Operation off-roast.
 Security Now is brought to you by Astarro, makers of the Astarro Security Gateway on
 the web at www.ASTARO.com.
 And by Nerds on Site, looking to grow your IT service business, find out how Nerds on
 Site can help visit IWANNABEANNURD.com.
 Time for Security Now, everybody's favorite security podcast, are there any others?
 Featuring the great security guru, my personal friend and hero, the man, the myth, the legend.
 Steve Gibson, how are you today?
 Yes, I'm a difficult man of everyone's imagination.
 Actually you know from the email that we received there, I know that there are other
 security podcasts, in fact there's one that was, yes exactly, but you know, I do hear
 people saying that this one stands alone from the others, and actually I've been driven
 to be a little bit curious about what they have meant by that, and so I've listened to
 some of the other ones, and you know, they're different than ours in...
 They're different, and so, you know, to each his own.
 And it doesn't hurt, you can listen to as many as you want, I mean, you know, CNET does
 a security podcast, you know, I have a friend actually in town who does a security podcast,
 so there's, you know, everybody needs to get as much information about this as they can.
 How many gigs do you have free?
 Now we'll fill it up, won't we?
 So today we're going to talk about, and just a bit, we're going to talk about an FBI operation
 that just recently came to light, and some amazing statistics.
 Yep, Wednesday before last, the FBI broke the news of what they called Operation Botroast,
 which is...
 Which is...
 Which is a...
 Which is a...
 ...uncharacteristically, humorous thing.
 Yeah, that's good.
 I'm impressed.
 You don't think of the FBI as being jokesters.
 Operation Botroast.
 All right, we'll talk about that just a second, we wanted to thank, and welcome back, in
 a way, nerds on-site.
 I prematurely dismissed them on the last episode.
 I thought that their contract was running out, in fact it was, but they are so happy
 to be part of this show, and we're so happy to have them, that we've agreed to continue
 on for some time to come.
 I guess that means that we must have a big supply of nerds that are listening and...
 You think?
 You know, feeding into that federated model they have, which I think is very cool.
 It's a good match.
 That's all I can say.
 I mean, yes, absolutely.
 We reach the audience, they're trying to reach, and we love them.
 They're doing something that we think needs to be done.
 So it's a great...
 It's a great match.
 Nerds on-site is continuing to grow.
 They need more nerds.
 We want more nerds.
 In all areas, PC and Mac, you can never have enough nerds.
 You can never have enough nerds.
 If you're in a Cisco and Oracle, they need you.
 If you're a fixate technician, a website designer, a programmer, a project manager,
 they need you.
 They need salespeople.
 They need your trainers, security experts, antivirus gurus and more.
 They really love the folks.
 The real...
 The true nerds like you and me who like to troubleshoot, tear apart, and rebuild their
 own systems and their spare time.
 They're exactly the kind of people who listen to security now.
 So the idea is you're an independent contractor.
 You're in business for yourself, but...
 And this is key.
 You're not by yourself.
 You focus on what you love, not on the burdens of running a business.
 That's why I love this idea.
 It's a great model.
 Nerds on-site operates all around the world in Canada, US, Mexico, and England, Australia,
 South Africa, Bolivia.
 Anywhere you can hear this podcast, you probably could find a nerd or two.
 And they also have a University of Nerdology where you can hone your skills.
 If you're a nerd, you love working with people.
 Go to www.Iwanttobeanerd.com and register for a nerds-only meeting in your area today.
 Iwanttobeanerd.com nerds on-site.
 Thanks so much for your support of security now.
 They really make this possible.
 Do we have any Dendem Arata that we want to cover before we go to the subject of hand?
 We do indeed.
 There was an Arata that I picked up from Justin Alcorn.
 And he's in Cleveland Heights.
 He writes during episode 96, Q&A.
 You answered a question about SPF.
 And of course, I remember that.
 He said, "Everything you said about SPF records was correct, except you didn't answer
 his question."
 No.
 He had the opposite problem.
 His problem was that his ISP was dropping email to him because his ISP had implemented
 an SPF check on incoming mail.
 Anyone now, and you may remember that this was a guy whose brother had created a family
 domain and his brother's server was simply redirecting the email from it to the ISP.
 I'm surprised I got that wrong because I'm pretty clear on what the problem was.
 But anyway, Justin goes on and says, "So the ISP implemented a check on incoming mail.
 Anyone who has sent an email to his forwarder that had an SPF record was dropped because
 the DNS record told the ISP that it was spoofed, which of course exactly is what SPF is for.
 So Justin says there are two clues.
 He wasn't losing all his mail, just some mail.
 Right.
 Okay.
 Wouldn't this be something we would all have happened to us?
 Because for instance, I have my mail sent to leo@leo.com, but it's not arriving at leo@leo.com,
 and it arrives at fast mail.
 Well, in fact, through a forwarder, yes, forwarders are the sort of the Achilles heel
 of, well, that's not really the right expression, but forwarders represent a serious problem
 for SPF.
 Because the SPF sort of relies on is that this old notion of mail forwarding, where you could
 just send your mail towards your destination.
 For example, if the actual server that was supposed to receive it was busy or offline,
 you could go to a backup MX server as it's called and put the mail there, and then that
 backup MX server would forward it on to the destination and do retries and so forth.
 So the whole idea with SPF is it's a way of authenticating the originating email server
 to the destination, which implies no middleman, but middleman have always been part of the
 way SMTP, the simple mail transfer protocol worked.
 So forwarding, which is what is going on here, is a problem.
 So anyway, to get to Justin's point, he says, either have the ISP whitelist the email forwarding
 service, and he says, paren's not likely, or have his brother implement a sender rewriting
 scheme, SRS, which will change the envelope from address to a domain that is allowed to
 send from that server.
 And so essentially, this is the way SPF can be altered to be forwarding friendly, although
 it may be actually doing more than his brother is able to do.
 The idea being that his brother's server would receive email and then rather than just sort
 of blindly bouncing it onward to the ISP, where you have a problem that the essentially
 the brother's server would rewrite the envelope to set it as the apparent source, which would
 then have a matching domain and presumably that his brother's server would also have
 an SPF record that said, we are the authorized originator of the following mail.
 So, you know, so there are ways around this, I just wanted to clarify that, you know, for
 the record.
 Okay, and I don't know why I'm not having the problem because I do the same thing.
 So I guess just not everybody pays attention to this stuff.
 Well, I mean, that's exactly what's still happening is if you, for example, if a recipient
 of email who has SPF technology has it active, for example, they'll query the originating
 server's DNS records to attempt to get a list of IPs or machines that are valid originators
 of mail from that domain, if that sender has no SPF record, which is still very much the
 case, then most ISPs will say, oh, well, you know, we don't, we didn't get any information
 one way or the other, so we'll allow it.
 But if there is a DNS record, it either matches the incoming mail or doesn't.
 If it matches, then you have a high degree of confidence that this mail is not spam and
 valid.
 If it doesn't match, you have a high degree of confidence that it is valid, that is invalid
 and should probably be just dumped into the spam folder, you know, so, but but there is
 that middle ground, which is no DNS record, no SPF support at the originating end, in
 which case, most ISPs will say, well, okay, we don't know either way.
 So we'd better let it through rather than just drop it, submit, summarily, right, makes
 sense.
 Yeah.
 So any other mail?
 Well, I do have a bag thing we do now.
 Yeah, I want to try to get more of our listeners comments and things.
 And I've got actually a couple for next week queued up, but I didn't want to do any more
 because I had sort of a longish or put really sort of interesting spin right story to share
 with our listeners.
 This is from a guy named Harry Lydenfeld and he says, Steve, let me start by saying I've
 been a big fan of security now with you and Leo since episode one up until this past week.
 I've never had a need for spin right since I've listened to you and Leo about backing
 up.
 So Harry's into making backups, which we always say, and it is the case, that that's really
 your first and best line of defense, and he says, I work at a courthouse here and inherited
 the security card access server and system for the courthouse from the county.
 Their solution to backup was CDs on a CD writer.
 The database has over 500 people in it.
 And so this is like secure access control stuff for the for the courthouse.
 Their database has over 500 people in it.
 And the number of CDs required were getting out of hand like thousands and imagine, yeah,
 and didn't make any sense.
 We had a computer crash about two years ago, and I gave the county the backup CDs.
 They were unable to restore the database saying that some of the CDs were corrupt.
 So we had to manually reenter the complete database, which took days of painstaking
 work.
 Hey, at least they had it.
 They could do it.
 Well, yes, he said, I promised they probably most have a hard copy of having that to hand
 enter it.
 He says, I promised that would never happen again.
 So I purchased Norton ghost and another hard drive and ran ghost.
 And I would do just weekly backups of data files, low and behold, the main hard drive
 failed and I rebooted the system off the ghosted hard drive and was up and running in minutes.
 Okay, two days later, that hard drive started to have issues and I had not yet purchased
 another hard drive as the county still wants to use their CDs.
 I was in fear of losing everything, so I purchased spin right.
 He's has friends for myself because the county wouldn't buy it, close brands.
 And immediately started it in level two mode.
 That was at 10 a.m. and it ran for just over four hours.
 And by 3 p.m. that same day, I booted the system backup and everything was back to normal.
 But here's the best part, the original hard drive that had failed and wouldn't boot up
 any longer after running spin right.
 It booted up normally and faster than ever before.
 He fixed that one too.
 And he says, spin right to the rescue once again.
 He says, I once again, ghosted the main hard drive and also have a second ghosted hard
 drive offsite in a secure storage just in case.
 Thanks again, Steve, for all your hard work.
 You've saved me days, possibly weeks of data recovery.
 We might mention, by the way, that we don't recommend spin right as a backup solution.
 You should still back up, but it's certainly nice to have in your toolkit.
 Exactly.
 Well, I mean, here's a perfect example of some guy who was doing everything right.
 He was backing up to a second hard disk.
 He was making a full image of the drive and doing it every couple of weeks being as conscientious
 as he could.
 But the drive he was relying upon as essentially as his sort of his offline mirror, it began
 to fail.
 Wow.
 So, you know, what was cool was that he ran spin right on that before it had died and
 then probably fixed the old one, which is yeah, mostly out of curiosity.
 He then ran since it's he had spin right now.
 He ran it on the one that had completely gone belly up and it's been right brought it back
 to life.
 It's a free for nothing.
 Yeah.
 Ooh.
 Maybe that's why they didn't want to pay for it.
 They didn't want to know.
 They didn't want to find out.
 Well, that's a nice success story.
 I thought I was a really neat, interesting story.
 So are you ready to talk about bots?
 Well, what we learned last week, it was Wednesday before last.
 So eight days ago, the FBI made some real news with their announcement of several things.
 They had arrested three what they're calling bot herders.
 I mean, I have to say, these press releases from the FBI are unlike their typical press
 releases.
 They first formally called this like an ongoing project that they have that they really had
 not talked about before, Operation Bot Roast, and they are in their press releases.
 They talk about these bot herders.
 They have arrested a guy named James Brewer from Arlington, Texas, Jason Michael Downey
 in Covington, Kentucky, and Robert Allen Soloway from Seattle, Washington.
 It turns out that they're now saying that as the FBI is saying that they have confirmed
 at least a million consumer PCs are infected with bots of one sort or another.
 Yeah, although, I mean, this even this is a low number compared with other estimates
 like Vince Cerf's estimate that it's a hundred sixty million.
 My goodness, a million, but a million is a lot.
 Well, yes, there are three major gangs of some sort that are now actually having turf
 wars over the bots because they get paid by spammers based on how many bots they're controlling.
 Right.
 And of course, those who have the most bots get more money.
 So essentially, it's like, you know, here's these hundreds of millions of innocent PCs,
 Windows PCs, as far as I know, all the bots that certainly all that I've come in contact
 with and have heard about are Windows based bots.
 And so they're like raw material for these gangs to now have turf wars over.
 And what they're in fact doing now is deliberately targeting each other's bots and stealing already
 infected computers from each other, literally fighting over these things.
 So amazing.
 So what's interesting, of course, I don't know whether our listeners know that I got
 directly involved in this myself when on Friday, May 4th, 2001, so a little over six
 years ago, I was sitting here working on a Friday evening and GRC dropped off the net.
 We just just disappeared off the internet.
 And I had, I had known theoretically about bot attacks and denial of a service attacks
 and all that, but I had never experienced one myself.
 Of course, those days are fond memories when I, you know, had still had my DOS innocence.
 The GRC lost that maybe, maybe you should explain what all of this is.
 What a DOS is, what a bot net is.
 I mean, we've talked about it before, but just for those who are just tuning in.
 Well, certainly, I think all of our listeners will understand that a DOS, DOS is an acronym
 standing for denial of service.
 What it, what it typically means in this day and age, which actually is somewhat different
 than what it meant 15 years ago or 10 years ago, today, it's a essentially a flood of internet
 traffic aimed at one or more, but only a few targets.
 And there are so many computers on the internet now, which are many of them are on 24/7, you
 know, they're always available or they come and go, but at any given time, many machines
 are obviously on the net at one time.
 What happens is that those are used to send a high volume of traffic, each one sending
 pretty much as much as it's able to, which coming from all directions around the globe
 focus their traffic to some site, an internet web server, or in some cases, an individual,
 or in some cases, we've even had attacks against the main DNS servers that hold the
 internet together, essentially, attacks on the internet itself.
 The FBI, in their statement, in their advisory, they said, because of their widely distributed
 capabilities, it says the government considers botnets now to be a growing threat to national
 security, the national information infrastructure, and the US economy.
 Well, that makes sense because of how botnets are used.
 Well, and so to finish on the sort of explanation, what happens is one way or another, people
 get themselves infected.
 Now, obviously, infections are not news for anyone on, you know, really, anyone today
 with a PC on the internet, there is spyware, there's malware, there's viruses, there's
 all kinds of different, you know, malware of various sorts that you can get injected
 or loaded or invited one way or another on your machine.
 One class of this bad stuff are called bots, what makes a bot special is that it is a,
 it's a piece of code which is, which arranges to run very much like a Trojan, it's arranges
 to run in your machine to survive attempts at removal.
 I've got a friend, in fact, you met him, Bob, who's up in Vancouver, who does sort of
 IT work for various companies, he got really fascinated by one particular Trojan of some
 sort which got into one of the companies that he does consulting for, someone, an employee,
 you know, brought it in on his laptop from outside and this thing immediately spread throughout
 the company and, you know, Bob has been doing this stuff for about 20 years now, he's close
 to as good as you can come and he just, I mean, this thing's been driving him nuts because
 he cannot get rid of it, you know, he like, he's gone through the directories, he's the
 kind of guy who knows what every file in Windows is for, I mean, he knows that at that level
 of detail, much more than I've ever bothered to and this thing on one machine, he just
 keeps coming back because, I mean, that's really the evolution we've seen over the last
 five years and you've talked about this, Leo, how it used to be that it was possible to
 remove spyware and now spyware has gotten so, so pernicious and so crafty at hanging
 on in a system that you all often just have to, you know, roll back to a restore point
 that you hope was not infected or restore from an image at a time that you had no infection.
 It's pretty no other, yeah, yeah, so, so anyway, what happens is what makes a bot a bot is
 it lodges itself in your system virtually irremovably and arranges somehow to enlist
 itself to receive commands, the most popular still to this day means for doing so is that
 the bot will join into an IRC chat channel, a hidden private password protected chat room
 where all the bots of a given bot herder to use the term, which isn't how becoming common.
 I like that.
 It's very descriptive.
 It, I mean, it's, it's perfectly descriptive, they'll, they'll all convene.
 Now, I want to point people to this, this document that I created after I rolled up my sleeves
 six years ago, because it, I, what I ended up doing was essentially reverse engineering
 a bot that someone provided and figuring out what it was doing.
 Then I created my own pseudo bot to emulate the protocol this bot was using.
 I got, you know, the IRC, RFCs, the, the, the specs for the way IRC works, which I'd never
 looked at before.
 And I quickly wrote a bunch of my own sort of benign bots to join in the party as if
 mine was, was a legitimate one that, that had been infected a computer.
 That allowed me then to watch what was going on and, and learn about what was happening.
 And essentially I, I ended up being able to infiltrate this network and, and ended up
 having some conversations with some of these, these bot herders about, about what they were
 doing.
 And I've got all the transcripts.
 I've got, I, I show a, a screen of all these bots checking in.
 This particular one was called evil bot.
 And they literally, they logged into the chat room and saluted and said evil bot three,
 two, nine, six reporting, first reporting for duty.
 And so you could literally, I mean, I was actually watching the screen scroll as these
 bots were, were, were, were coming and going as the, as the users of the computers that
 had unwittingly been infected as they turned their machines on and off, these bots came
 and went.
 And at any time, in this case, there were only a few hundred, the, the, the frightening
 thing is that these networks have now grown to tens of thousands.
 And in some cases, hundreds of thousands of machines.
 So you have all these machines, all logging into a chat room.
 So then the bot herder himself or herself logs in to the chat room and issues commands,
 which will be seen as chat operates by everybody logged in.
 And so literally this person issues commands saying, okay, everybody, go attack a certain
 domain name or go attack a certain IP or here's where you go to pick up a list of spam addresses
 and I want you to send all set, start sending spam.
 So it's a, it's essentially it's centralized control of a worldwide, massively distributed
 network of slave computers, which can be used for many purposes.
 It used to be they were only used for attacking because this thing all grew out of script kitties,
 you know, sort of junior hackers home from school in the afternoon, blasting each other
 off the network, trying to obtain control of IRC chat rooms.
 And so they were using their own IRC chat mechanisms, which they had developed bots
 for to attack each other because if you, if you, I can't remember the term now for the
 person who's running an IRC server, or the moderator or the, uh, it's the equivalent
 of a, the channel, channel op.
 That's exactly it.
 Yes.
 And so if the channel op goes offline, then somebody else has the opportunity to, to,
 to come in and take over.
 So they were literally blasting each other offline in order to sort of keep, to sort
 of play capture the flag of, of these, these chat rooms.
 And as a channel op, then you have the ability to kick other users offline.
 And so I mean, it was, it sort of started off being, you know, horse play among teenagers.
 And fortunately, even then this was all illegal because they were using other people's machines
 remote controlling them in order to do their, their dirty work for them.
 So what's happened is it's evolved now into huge spam bot networks.
 They are able to, because they're command driven, they're able to launch denial of service
 attacks and now they're renting out their DOS services to, to third parties who want,
 for example, gambling sites, competitive as someone who's, who's a competitor of a gambling
 site will hire a botnet service to blast the competitor off the net at a critical time
 during a horse race or a, or a boxing match or something.
 And I mean, this is what's going on all the time.
 So what I'm really glad for is that the FBI has, first of all, it's taken them frankly
 years to get themselves up to speed and organized, but they clearly are now organized and, and
 are pursuing these guys.
 So for example, this, this James Brewer in Arlington, what got the FBI's attention was
 that his bots infected a number of Chicago area hospitals.
 And so critical PCs running, you know, intensive care software were being brought down and
 their bandwidths saturated, which they needed by this guy's bots, you know, and as soon
 as you start messing up hospital systems, the, you know, that raises red flags at the FBI.
 And, and so the FBI doubtless did something very much like what I did was known once they
 had their forensics guys up to speed and understanding how to deal with this, they, they sequestered
 one of these bots, grabbed it, and probably deliberately infected a, a honey pot machine
 of their own, and then watch this thing connect into bot herder central, wherever that was.
 And then began the process of backtracking the, the individual who was communicating
 with the bots.
 And of course, essentially that's the weakness of the system, this, the IRC chat system is
 used to obviously to create a layer of insulation between the bot herder and his bots to, to
 hopefully keep him from being easily findable.
 But, but the people who run these bots, they don't know whose computers they're commandeering.
 Only the, this James Brewer guy didn't know that a number of his bots were causing serious
 problems for Chicago area hospitals.
 We could hope that he has enough morality to, you know, not have done that deliberately.
 And in fact, the way these machines get infected, you know, is just by visiting websites, by,
 by people opening malicious email, you know, all the standard means for, for infecting
 computers can be employed for distributing bots.
 And so the point is that the bot herders have no idea whose computers they've commandeered.
 And what's happening now that the FBI considers this a serious threat to national security
 is the FBI doubtless has lots of honeypots that they are deliberately infecting with these
 bots or allowing to become infected, and then they're starting the process of backtracking
 the communications back to the bot herder.
 And you know, this is no, this is not funny, funny games anymore.
 This is, this is serious business now.
 And it is, you know, the problem of course is that there is substantial economic benefit
 now to the bot herders.
 It used to be that it was, you know, teenagers blasting each other off the net to play capture
 the flag. Now it's, I will sell you my network to use for launching, you know, in fact,
 one of these guys, I think it was, it was this Robert and solo away in Seattle, tens
 of millions of pieces of spam sent from his network.
 It's amazing.
 Really, it's really amazing. You know, I've seen these bot networks at work too. And it's
 what's interesting is how quickly they fill up, as you mentioned, they, it's instant boom,
 boom, boom, every second, another computer is co-opted and joins the net.
 Well, and in fact, I remember when I was really involved in this, I am really no more now.
 I mean, it's, it's, it's evolved to a whole different plateau, but I was in, I got involved,
 as I said, six years ago, early in the game, and I participated in a passively just listening
 to dialogues among the, these, these bot herders, because I ended up tracking them down, following
 them around. I mean, you know, you would see someone referred to, oh, let's go over here.
 And they didn't know that I was already there listening. So I'd follow them over there.
 And, and I remember listening to them talk about putting out a new bot like in the evening
 and coming back the next day after school, and they had, they, you know, exactly, I mean,
 they were, they were in high school, or, you know, or junior high, you know, they, they,
 they get home from school in the afternoon. And that new bot would already have 3000 hosts.
 Yeah. Yeah. That's why a million is. So is the FBI, do they, are they using any specialized
 tools to track these botnets down? How are they going about this? Have they talked about
 that at all there? No, they're being closed mouth about it, because of course they don't
 want anything that they're doing to, to be defeated by, you know, by, by talking too much
 about it. And is, as he's always the case, there isn't a, there isn't a single universal
 solution because, for example, in the case of these gangs who are fighting each other,
 they're creating different bots and essentially anti-bot bots. And they're spitting out like
 20 new ones a day. So, so the, the, so the actual, the actual bots themselves are evolving
 at a very fast pace. Ultimately though, the Achilles heel, you know, to answer your question
 generically, the Achilles heel is that there's nothing to prevent good guys from, from deliberately
 infecting their machines with bots and then backtracking. Now, you have to imagine, because
 Microsoft has been involved in this initiative too, since since 2004. So for the last three
 years. And now of course, we've got the malicious software removal tool as part of the Windows
 update suite of software. And I notice, you know, every second Tuesday, I'm getting an
 updated version of that. So at some point, once, once the bots that are malicious are
 known, I would imagine that information finds its way to Microsoft and the Microsoft adds
 the signatures for removing these things to the degree that they're able. So there is,
 there is a means for proactively dealing with the, the neutering and removal of the bots.
 The problem is, and this is something that we researched extensively back in the, I think
 it was code red worm. There is no way for the FBI to directly remove this malware, even
 though the FBI probably has the IP addresses of all these infected machines. The reason
 the FBI says a million is they've been collecting IPs. And so they know the IPs of the of the
 infected machines. But as we know, that is security now listeners will know, just having
 the IP of the machine tells you little other than who the ISP is that the machine belongs
 to. In order to push it further, you'd have to get subpoenas from, you know, you have
 the FBI would have to give subpoenas to the ISP compelling the ISP to release the names
 and addresses of the owners of the IP at that, at that given time. The ISP may want to comply,
 but the terms of service gives their customers certain rights of privacy. So the ISP needs
 the FBI to subpoena this information from them in order to cover them legally against actions,
 you know, by their customers. So the point is, all this is a moving target. It's happening
 quickly. The bots are changing and literally evolving, you know, users are hanging up changing
 their IPs. And essentially, there's no direct way for the, for the, for the FBI to access
 those end users computers, because that's illegal, even if it's the FBI doing it.
 Interesting. So that makes it difficult for them to pursue this, I would guess.
 Yeah. Now they've talked about working with CERT, the group out of Carnegie Mellon to,
 to somehow notify end users directly. But I noticed in one of the reports, one of the,
 the main techies at the Sands Institute that, that also covered the story, who's been very
 involved in this work. He says, well, you know, how are they going to do that? We've
 been trying to notify users with, with their D shield service for years. And, you know,
 they've learned how ineffective that process is because it's not the smart users is not
 frankly the people listening to security now, not the people within range of our voices,
 video. It's, you know, it's people who really aren't paying attention to security who will
 glibly click on any link that comes in the email. And, you know, those are the machines
 that are crawling around with this stuff. You know, they're not going deed to D shield
 to see if their IP is listed as it's probably being a source of attacks.
 Well, imagine their reaction if they get a letter from the FB, an email from the FBI saying,
 we think you've been compromised. I think we've trained most listeners well enough to
 go, yeah, right. I'm going to click that link. Well, and see that that's exactly the problem
 too. Is there, you know, with armed only with the IP, there is no way you can send email
 to an IP. You can only send it, of course, to an email address. And that's why really
 the first line of defense should be once again, the internet service providers that they could
 tell them, look, this is these these IP addresses in your system are compromised.
 Well, that's a very good point. I mean, and that's that's something where, I mean, that's
 an aspect of controversy. Certainly you could argue that the ISP could see and will see an
 abnormal amount of outgoing traffic from specific customers. If that, you know, if that customer
 did that a lot of the time over the course of a week, the ISP could reasonably assume
 something is wrong on, you know, on this customer. The problem is that begins to involve the
 ISP in, in issues of quality of service. And the ISPs are super reluctant to begin to
 say, well, we're going to take any responsibility because when they fail to do so, then potentially
 that makes them liable, right? Right. I mean, I think that's who really once again, I mean,
 with spam, with this problem, it's the ISP who really needs to step up and who seem to
 be so reluctant to do so. But maybe someday, as the, as the, you know, these are the guys
 who are putting us online. And I think they have some responsibility. They know what's
 going on. They can tell there's traffic like that going on if they wanted to monitor it.
 Yes, you absolutely could tell. Now, you might also argue that there really, there really
 isn't the monitoring tools available to do this. I mean, they see traffic going out
 through their router, but they would need to, to log it over a period of time and then
 classify it to see that one given source IP or collection of source IPs is sending a high
 level of traffic to a collection of destination IPs. So, I mean, that really requires some
 proactive steps on the part of the ISP. Your, your point is exactly right, Leo, because
 the ISP is at the border. They are seeing all of the traffic transit their network. So they
 potentially have the information, but going from that to, to basically processing all
 of their logs for this reason, really requires a next level of involvement. And, you know,
 they had no one has compelled them to do so. Now, if the FBI starts rattling sabers and
 saying, Wait a minute, the, you know, ISPs are enabling this. Oh, I forgot to mention the
 eye, the FBI is also saying the majority of these bots are in the US. Yes. Yes, by the
 way, very important. Because so it's not not like they're all over in China somewhere
 where we, you know, we really can't get to them. They're here. And, and so, you know,
 you could imagine some congressman gets a, a B in his bonnet and, you know, floats some
 legislation to begin to try to increase exactly as you say, Leo, the level of responsibility
 that ISPs have as the people who are providing the bandwidth for their customers to the internet.
 What responsibility does the ISP have not, you know, to go to take some measures to thwart
 this kind of activity? Because that would do it. That would end this overnight. Yeah.
 Fascinating stuff. And as always, you've exposed us to something new and interesting,
 the semi underbelly of the internet. And guess what? I was going to say that I do want to,
 to recommend our listeners go over to GRC and add themselves to the already million people
 that have downloaded the PDF I have there that tells this story of, of me learning about
 what this was in detail, and then rolling up my sleeves and backtracking, you know, basically
 infiltrating several of these networks and, and going about solving the problem and learning
 about what was going on. I think people would really find it interesting. Yeah. Yeah.
 Folks, we want to thank you for joining us and remind you that you can secure yourselves
 against these kinds of attacks here in business. You want to look at the Estaro security gateway.
 Every time we talk about stuff like this, I think, you know, security, especially if
 you're in business, when you have a lot of users and you don't really have control over
 what they're doing. Security becomes so important. And that's where Estaro can make such a difference.
 The Estaro security gateway now in version seven has a number of really nice new features,
 its parent email, decryption and encryption at the server, which makes it no encryption
 software is needed on the client side. It's all done transparently, which is great, great
 for the security of your organization. Digital signatures too, based on S Mime and open PGP
 standards. You can have defined user groups or individual users automatically encrypting
 and or signing their emails through a central system inside the gateway inbound email automatically
 decrypted. What a great way to add some real serious security to your email. And because
 of the nature of a UTM, both incoming and outgoing email is verified and forward through virus
 and content scanners before users open it. Keep those bots out of your environment. That's
 just one of many features. SSL VPN is new. Great scaling, including building clustering.
 So you don't you could you could actually add more security gateways up to, I think I
 don't know what the limit is. I think as many as 10, with no need for additional load balancing
 or anything. What else you get? Oh, I mean, just go the glist goes on and on. Of course,
 you know, you get the antivirus, anti spam, two different flavors of antivirus protection
 anti spam content filtering on and on and on the star security gateway best way to protect
 your enterprise, try it free. Call 888. The number four AST a R O 888 for a star. Or you
 can visit them on the web at AST a R O dot com home users, by the way, the star home gateway
 software is absolutely free for non commercial use. And you get all of those features, including
 the antivirus and a spam and everything. If you've got an old beige box line around, download
 it and use it. It's the best free way to protect yourself. AST a R O dot com. Thanks so much
 for supporting security. Now, Steve Gibson is available. You can get that white paper,
 of course, on his experiences with DDoS attacks, but he's also got Oh, so much other great
 stuff there, including his free security software, like shields up, de combobulator, shoot the
 messenger leak test. I saw one the other day. Oh, that I'd forgotten about and I never mentioned
 and it's such a cool little program. It's not a security program, but whizmo. I love the
 little whizmo. Really a great free program. Lots of good stuff there, including 16 kilobits
 versions of this podcast. If you've got a dial up system and you just want really small
 files and transcripts too. So you can read along, share it with your organization. If
 you want to improve security in your organization, this is security now is an advanced course
 in security, almost 100 shares. That's GRC.com. You're about to say something. I heard you
 take a deep breath. I was just going to say that it's been another great episode and I'll
 look forward to talking to you next week. Good. We'll do it next week. Thank you, Steve.
