 "That casts you love from people you trust."
 "This is Twit."
 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by AOL Radio at aol.com/podcasting.
 This is Security Now is Steve Gibson, Episode 90 from May 3, 2007, Multifactor Authentication.
 Security Now is brought to you by Astaro, makers of the Astaro Security Gateway, on the web
 at www.ASTARO.com.
 And by Nerds on Site, looking to grow your IT service business, find out how Nerds on Site
 can help visit, I WANNA BE A NERD.COM.
 Here we are already at Episode 90 at this rate, Steve.
 I think you're going to catch up with Twit any minute now.
 I look forward to that day.
 You know, one of my own personal benchmarks.
 I'm starting to get emails and stuff on our 100th episode of Twit, you know, people want
 to give away stuff and I'm just getting gifts in the mail and stuff that it's kind of neat.
 I just hope we make it to number 100 at this point.
 It's getting a little iffy.
 There's no question that in 10 weeks we'll be at number 100 for security now, there's
 just no doubt about it.
 Well, and I've got some plans for it.
 I have a special plan for the 100th episode, something I think everyone's going to get
 a big kick out.
 Well, the Daily Giz was just at its 300th and we gave away a bunch of stuff.
 See, now that's cheating because you do what is it?
 What is it?
 One a day, right?
 Yeah.
 Well, and of course the first podcast I did was the radio show and that's up to the episode
 350.
 But the Giz will catch up because we only do two a week of the radio show.
 Right.
 Right.
 But I started that was the very first podcast I did because one of the very first podcasts
 of any kind and it was in October, September, I think of 2004, is that right?
 Yeah.
 Anyway, enough reminiscing time to talk about security and today we're going to talk about
 you something you call multi-factor authentication.
 Yeah, it's something we've never touched on before.
 We certainly of course very on, very early on in this series, we did some extensive coverage
 of what are good passwords and good password management habits and so forth.
 But increasingly, what we're seeing is that what's called single factor authentication,
 which is just typically a username and password is being regarded with increasing skepticism
 as simply due to all the problems that we've talked about with passwords.
 So multi-factor authentication is like the new thing and I think it'll be fun to talk
 about it with our listeners.
 Well, let's get to that in just a second and we'll also get you some updates if there
 are any on past episodes, but before we do anything else, we should thank our friends
 at a star.
 Because they sponsor this podcast and have done so for quite some time now, you know,
 pretty soon it'll be like we never were without a star, it'll be a fraction of the total episodes
 that we didn't have a star with us.
 I'm glad to have them on board.
 They make one of the best, if not the best, security gateway on the market, certainly.
 One that you should be taking a look at, version seven of the software just came out.
 It includes, I mean, this one unit, it's the size of a router, small consumer router.
 It's not a consumer-grade product by any means.
 Includes email security, anti-spam, anti-fishing, dual virus protection, both for email and of
 course, regular antivirus, transparent encryption, web filtering.
 You get content filtering, web antivirus, you need that too nowadays, anti-spyware, instant
 message and peer-to-peer software controlling.
 You get network protection, firewalling, remote access, VPN intrusion protection.
 And they've enhanced version seven with transparent email encryption and decryption on the server
 side on the gateway side, which makes it very easy for you to set up, you know, your users
 don't know that it's happening, but it's happening automatically.
 SSL VPN, scalability via clustering up to 10 security gateways, really remarkable.
 And now if you're a home user, the free version seven package will include the base license,
 all subscriptions and a star, up to date.
 That is a great deal.
 I used to sell that for 79 euros.
 Now it's free.
 So many reasons to visit asta.com.
 If you're a business, call 877, the number four AST ARO and set up a free trial in your
 office.
 I use it and I know many of the biggest companies use it.
 It really is the best out there.
 Starros security gateway 877, the number four AST ARO.com.
 So any, any, any updates from the last couple of weeks, Steve?
 I don't have any errata, although I do have sort of a fun, no, certainly not that, but
 nothing has gotten to my attention.
 But I do have sort of a fun, different sort of spin right anecdote to share.
 One that's not about saving a PC.
 I got a note from someone named Scott Freudenthal in Florida, who's a security now listener.
 He says, the subject of the note was, "spin right saves more than just computers.
 Thanks be to goodness."
 As he put it, he said, "Steve, I've used spin right for saving multiple hard drives in
 the past.
 I've always been impressed with the capabilities of the product.
 I always knew that I could count on spin right to save the day.
 I figured you had enough feedback on your basic day in, day out, computer, computer
 recoveries, no, that's not true, everybody, send as many notes as you want.
 I love getting him.
 Love getting his reward."
 Yeah, exactly.
 And he says, "So I have never, so he said, so I have never sent you any feedback before.
 However, I was gone on a vacation recently, and during my absence, our Tivo died."
 Now, we're talking about a real serious situation.
 Yeah.
 Well, as you can imagine, he was counting on his Tivo to be sucking up all of the programs
 that he wasn't able to watch while it was on vacation planning anything so scary, somebody
 going into Grey's Anatomy withdrawal, I mean, that's just painful.
 So he says, "I tried tech support when I returned and realized the only solution they were offering
 was a new Tivo.
 I vaguely remembered hearing on security now that someone had used it to fix a Tivo drive.
 So I gave it a shot.
 Oh, happy day.
 Our Tivo is back and Harmony has returned to our little family unit.
 Thank you so much for making such an exceptional product.
 Wow.
 Keep up the good work and the great information provided on security now signed Ann and Scott
 Freudenthal in Florida.
 That's neat.
 So now we've heard of people using it on their iPod hard drive and their Tivo hard
 drive.
 Yeah.
 And I think I did once mention it sort of offhand about it being useful for Tivo.
 It has saved Greg, my tech support guy, Greg's Tivo, a couple of my Tivo several times.
 Oh, really?
 You know, because those things sit there, they tend to run hot and they just go day in
 and day out.
 And the Tivo actually is always running data through the hard drive.
 So the hit is constantly moving back and forth between its recording area and its playback
 area.
 Even if it's doing nothing.
 I mean, you know, when you turn it on, you've got that 30 minute buffer delay always sitting
 there.
 So, so, I mean, Tivo really does work these hard drives pretty, pretty hard.
 And you know, sometimes they just get more than they can handle.
 So, so Spinrite is, of course, able to fix them.
 And I wanted, I wanted just to renew that fact as a consequence of Scott's note.
 It doesn't matter what operating system or what file system is being used on the hard
 drive.
 No, because you don't look at that.
 Well, it's been right will if it's present, but if it doesn't have a partition table that
 recognizes it goes, okay, well, we'll fix whatever's here, even if we don't know what
 it is.
 Ah, interesting.
 Interesting.
 And of course, it's interesting too, because on the older series one Tivo is like mine,
 which I've stayed with because they're much more hackable than than the newest ones.
 That's a power PC platform that has the bytes swapped in a different order than Intel.
 So the data recorder on the drive isn't even recognizable as a normal partition table.
 Even though it has one, Spinrite looks at the, for the signature at the end of the partition
 table, doesn't see the 5 5 AA, because on that, on that system, it's AA 5 5, and Spinrite
 goes, okay, well, we'll just fix it, even if we don't know what this is.
 Interesting.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Let's see.
 No updates from last week.
 So let's launch right into it.
 This is something called multi, multi-factor authentication.
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 Now, okay, let's step back a little bit and talk about authentication sort of generically,
 you know, back in the olden days, unquote, you know, like Andy of Mayberry days, you
 know, Opie would go into the drugstore and exactly, yes, and, you know, and the pharmacist
 knew him.
 And so he'd say, Oh, you're here to pick up, you know, grandma, I don't remember what
 his grandmother's name was, but I can't be, can't be exactly.
 Thank you.
 I'll go down to the drugstore and get my heart pills, exactly.
 And so, so there was, there was known person to person authentication that you could rely
 on.
 And so, you know, people knew you and just being known was, you know, real world authentication
 or, you know, if it's a restaurant you went in all the time, say you forgot your wallet
 once.
 It's like, Oh my God, I don't have my money with me.
 Oh, no.
 Yeah.
 That's fine.
 Yes, we know here, here's, come back, come back in an hour or you know, pay for it next
 time, whatever.
 So I mean, there was in the real physical world, we, we always had authentication.
 Of course, what's happened with the internet is, and to an increasing degree, that kind
 of real world authentication is gone.
 But it's still very important.
 And in fact, you could argue increasingly important due to the fact that applications
 of the internet are expanding really important for authentication to be present.
 Now, we've talked about websites authenticating themselves using SSL and certificates where
 a web server has a certificate signed by an authority where we trust the signing authority
 vera sign or Equifax or whomever.
 And so we assume that that signing authority has done its due diligence to verify the identity
 of anyone it's giving a certificate to.
 So our web browser trusts that signing authority, and when we get a certificate, as we're setting
 up an SSL, a secure connection to the web server, we get the certificate.
 We see that it was signed by someone we trust.
 And so that creates a chain of trust that says, okay, we're going to trust the certificate
 owner because we trust the signer of that certificate.
 Well, that's authenticating from the remote into us.
 Single factor authentication, really.
 Well, that's actually, yes, that is a single factor.
 And in typical e-commerce mode, the need when you're wanting to authenticate yourself to
 someone else is going in the other direction.
 And the classic example is online banking where you want to make sure you can get to
 your personalized online banking account page, but nobody else can.
 And the bank would like to know that you are you.
 So originally, of course, passwords is what was used because people were kind of, they
 understood passwords immediately, you have a username and password which you use to log
 on.
 Now, as we've talked about in talking about passwords extensively, they're free.
 That is, they don't cost anything and they're easy to use.
 But at the same time, they have this downside of you don't you get what you pay for.
 That is, you know, you didn't pay anything for them.
 So you have the problem, as we've talked about, of user management, you know, the if a password
 is easily guessable, then that's a problem.
 If it's really complex, then you're in danger of not being able to remember it.
 And so what many people do is they'll write them down and that a written down password,
 of course, is a problem because then anyone else coming along can see it and find it.
 So that's bad.
 And so, and the use of, and we've also talked about the use of many different passwords,
 not using the same password all the time, but having a bunch of them.
 Well, having a bunch of them also puts a burden on the user of just having so many passwords.
 The other problem with the password is it can be deliberately divulged.
 That is, you could say, oh, you know, if you want to read, you know, my New York Times
 online magazine subscription or online newspaper subscription, just log on using my password,
 my user.
 I've done that many times.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 So, so there's so it has both the problem of unintentionally being discovered and being
 deliberately divulged.
 So, so essentially, there's this issue of, of accountability and plausible deniability.
 You know, weak authentication means that users cannot be held accountable.
 You know, it's like, you know, the dog ate my homework problem, meaning that say, say
 that your boss comes to you and says, hey, you know, you logged on to the server and we're
 doing some bad things, but, but, you know, if all you're using is a weak, a weekly, authenticatable
 password, you could say, Oh, somebody must have stolen it.
 I didn't do that.
 So, so there isn't strong accountability there because, you know, again, they're easy
 to use, but they have a problem.
 So, so all of this discussion so far that the whole issue of passwords is, is known in
 the security trade as single factor authentication.
 That is, you're only being asked to provide a single aspect for authentication.
 Well, generalizing factors, it's very cool, sort of the jargon that's been developed.
 I get a kick out of this because passwords are something you know.
 The next two types of factors are something you have and something you are.
 Wait a minute, let me understand that has password is something you know.
 Yep.
 Okay, that makes sense.
 So, that's, that's the first of a multi factor authentication scheme would be that.
 Or I would say it's the most common, yeah, of the most common factor in a multi factor
 authentication scheme is something you know, something you know, the other would be something
 you have, like say a smart card or some sort of a token, a token, sort, and then what's
 the, and then something you, something you are, which is to say, your fingerprint, ah-ha,
 or, or the pattern of blood vessels in the iris of your right eye, or obese face when
 he walked into the pharmacy.
 It for facial recognition.
 Well, it's a password and he didn't need anything, a token.
 He had his face.
 That was a little factor there, exactly, because of who he was.
 Right.
 And that was uniquely recognizable.
 In fact, now that's the key is what we're really talking about here.
 And actually, I haven't seen this anywhere in the literature, but it, but maybe because
 it's too obvious.
 But again, by making these obvious things clear, you know, we, we end up with a, I think a
 deeper understanding.
 Yeah.
 But what we're really talking about is something only you know, something only you have, ah,
 or something only you are.
 Right.
 Because of course, the problem with a password is maybe somebody else could know it.
 Right.
 Or a twin, it wouldn't only be him that looked like him.
 That very good point.
 Yeah.
 Okay, I get it.
 So, so things you know, something you know, as we've talked about, could be a password
 or a pin like, like, like, like you use when you're using an ATM card.
 And in fact, an ATM card and the experience of authenticating yourself to an ATM machine
 is a, is probably the most common and it's a perfect example of two factor authentication.
 Yes.
 Because, because the something you know is the PIN number.
 Right.
 And the something you have is the ATM card.
 Got it.
 And that's, that's arguably much stronger than, you know, just a password.
 On the other hand, it too could be defeated, that is, you know, mom could give her ATM card
 and PIN to one of her kids and say, you know, go down and, you know, withdraw $100.
 So, so the fact that the card is loanable represents some insecurity.
 That is the, although the, although the responsibility is certainly falls on the card owner to manage
 that card correctly.
 So it's stronger than a password.
 But you could argue that the ATM machine is assuming that the actual owner of the card
 is the person who is present.
 What in fact, that's not the case because there's no use of that third factor, which
 is something only you are.
 Right.
 Right.
 Got it.
 Got it.
 So, so.
 More factors the better.
 Well, well, yes, except that it, well, yes.
 In general, it's certainly the case of the more factors the better.
 The one downside of that is the more factors you have, the more tendency there is to trust
 the authentication and what can often happen is that that organizations or IT structures
 will, will put more trust in than they should because they get all worked up over how secure
 their solution is.
 And then if, if something comes along to break that authentication, you can end up with a
 much greater exposure and vulnerability as a consequence.
 And now, of course, you know, the, the, so we have the, the something you know is some
 information.
 Now, remember that there's also other classes of that.
 For example, there's the normal password and pin, then there's like, you know, instances
 where you'll be asked for your mother's made name or the name of your elementary school
 or, you know, some, you know, like second tier information if you're needing to further
 authenticate yourself for whatever reason.
 And of course, again, the, the problem with that is anything like that is easily shareable.
 Now, we talked about the ATM card as something you have.
 Of course, what's becoming now popular are various sorts of dongles or tokens.
 RSA has something they call secure ID, which is a little battery powered LCD display with
 a six digit number on it, which changes once every minute.
 And so the idea is that it's a clever solution.
 Of course, they've locked it up in patents every which way.
 The idea being that this hardware, this is a hardware token, which, you know, you can
 stick on your key chain and every minute, the number changes.
 So if you need to log in to any facility on the internet, which uses RSA's secure ID system,
 you will be asked for the current token showing, or I'm sorry, the current six digit number
 appearing on this little token, which you just type in.
 And what's cool about it is that it's, it's obviously got a clock inside.
 It is every minute, it's changing this.
 Well, we understand enough of crypto now that all that's required is for a number of seconds
 since whenever, since, you know, the year 2000, for example, that the linear number
 of seconds is run through symmetric encryption with a, with an individual key, which turns
 that counter from a, from a, just a monotonically increasing value into what looks like a completely
 random number.
 And in fact, there's no way without knowing what the symmetric key is to guess given any
 one number, what the next one will be.
 And an extension of that is there's no way to know at any point in time what number will
 be showing on that LCD and the, the only people who know is the RSA server because there'll
 be some serial number on the key, which is in no way related to that symmetric, the symmetric
 key being, being used to encrypt this monotonically increasing value.
 But what happens is when you type it in the, the server you're trying to authenticate to
 like, I can't use Bank of America because they're not using this system.
 They have something else, which actually site key, which, and we'll talk and it's badly.
 Oh, it turns out it's already been hacked and broken.
 And they're all, they're all jumping around talking about it as a powerful two factor
 authentication.
 And it's not.
 Yeah.
 So, but, but imagine some, some working system that has contracted with RSA to, to provide
 authentication services.
 So you enter this token into their server, their server asks RSA say, saying, so you,
 you identify yourself by username and enter the current value on the token RSA looks you
 up by the serial number on your token, which has been established ahead of time.
 They look up the matching secure symmetric key that is, is inside your token and unreadable
 using any, any practical technology.
 But they, but they know what it is because they, they established that once.
 They look that up, they unencrypt that is, they decrypt the six digit number, which is
 just a number of seconds since some period in time, they decrypt that back to the counter
 value and verify that it's within a minute or two of where, of the current time.
 So that's why it's no good after that minute.
 Well, well, exactly.
 So however, they want to have some fudge window because the, the minute counter could click
 over, right, you know, for example, your, your little battery powered clock in the token
 could be running a little fast.
 And so, so what's very cool though is every time you use it, it resynchronizes the, with
 RSA a fudge factor.
 So for example, RSA can, can see from the token, you give it, it'll look at the minute
 before, maybe, you know, as, as many minutes before or after as necessary to find the value
 that you've entered.
 And then RSA can decide if that's close enough to the current time.
 And when they make that decision, they, they store a fudge factor to sit, so that next
 time they know, oh, this guy's dongle is running three minutes ahead.
 So as long as you use it, you know, what, what, every like three or four times a year,
 your clock in your little dongle isn't going to drift that far off from the last time you
 used it.
 So are, so the RSA knowledge of where your little counter is stays synchronized.
 So it's a, it's a, it's a neat solution.
 This is supposed to be the, you know, I mean, if you're for a single factor security solution,
 this is really supposed to be it.
 Well, it's a good solution and in fact they have, they've got it patented.
 They've also implemented the same thing in a, and you could imagine how in a software
 only version, they've, they've just recently released it in the, for the Java ME, the micro
 edition platform that'll run on, you know, any small phone, uh, if, if runs on Windows
 mobile pocket PC, Symbian, the, the, the palm trio, the blackberry, so you're, you are able
 to, to use a regular, um, you know, PC based or smartphone and have the secure ID technology
 in there.
 Also, because of course all of those things have a clock and all you, all you need is
 a clock and a counter and crypto.
 Now you could argue and I would, but that's not as secure as using a specific custom token
 because anything that's basically in software is certainly hackable.
 On the other hand, it costs much less to download a piece of software than it does to make and
 carry this dongle and people typically have their phones or their trios or their black
 bears or whatever with them.
 So it's a good solution.
 By the end of this podcast, we will explain why it's no good, um, that, I mean, why it's
 good, but it's not perfect.
 It's not perfect.
 It's not perfect because of it is susceptible to man in the middle attacks and many of these
 things are right, but that's why multi factor becomes so critical exactly because you want
 as many as you can.
 So, um, one of the other really interesting solutions which have, which people have come
 up with is the actual use of a mobile phone.
 That is not like I was just saying using R as a security, but imagine that what it is
 that you remember, one is what you know and one is what you have.
 Well, many people, if not most people these days have a cell phone, right?
 So the fact that they're in possession of the cell phone is a strong aspect of authentication.
 Oh, of course.
 We're not going to overstate it exactly, but it's, it's better than nothing.
 And it's probably free.
 So imagine a service where you, where you log in and they send your phone.
 That is the phone associated with your account, a short SMS message with a password, a series
 of digits, which you have to type in, in, in the web browser as you're logging in.
 The only way you could know it is if you are in possession of the phone and you look up
 the message you just received and key the number in and the real beauty of this approach is
 it, it's an out of band communication, that is to say, and we've talked before about inbound
 an out of band, the idea being that anything in band is that the main dialogue that we're
 having, for example, over a, a secure connection with a server that we're logging into, but
 doing something out of band is really nice.
 It'd be like someone phoning you at the phone near you and saying, hi, hi there, John,
 you know, you need to enter this number into the web browser in order to authenticate yourself.
 Right.
 That's an out of band communication, but using an SMS message on a cell phone is very easily
 automatable and provides the information out of band only to the person's phone that's
 associated with the account.
 So there's, there's another sort of clean, clever approach for, for this kind of something
 you have authentication.
 Another approach that I've seen is the use of a code sheet that is there, there's one
 company, and I can't think of their name.
 And again, it's, if they've got patents protecting this is when you sign up for this, this, this,
 this form of two factor authentication, you get a, you print out a web page containing
 a little four by four, that's four inch by four inch piece of paper, which is a chart
 of symbols and letters.
 And so the idea is, again, that's something you have that you can easily fold in half
 and stick in your wallet.
 Yeah.
 And when it's time to authenticate yourself, their website will show you a series of icons
 and you look them up on your chart and type in the corresponding letter.
 Oh, that's cool.
 It's very, it's very clever and simple and simple.
 And it's a one time, basically it's like a one time little crypto sheet, and it costs
 nothing because everyone, you know, who can bring up a webpage and print it is able to
 do that.
 So it's, you don't need a hardware token, but it's a form of hardware token because each
 every single one that's issued is different.
 So no two people have the same two sheets.
 The issuing server remembers which sheet each person received and then the web server is
 able to issue a one time pattern of icons.
 That is, it will never issue those again.
 And so, so these things are trying to solve the problem of anyone collecting keystrokes
 because if you had a keystroke logger on your system that saw you entering this password,
 well, that password that you are giving back to the server in a classic challenge response
 fashion, you've been challenged by, by, by being presented by the series of icons.
 You look up on your unique sheet, the corresponding letters and type that in, you will never receive
 the same series of icons again, never type in the same password again.
 So no one logging your whole log on handshake protocol is ever able to reuse it.
 And that's kind of the key to a lot of these systems is these one time passwords or one
 time authentication.
 Yes.
 And of course that is, that also is the whole RSA secure ideal, since it's changing every
 minute, it's not good again.
 It's funny because as I was, as I was thinking about this and doing some research, I was
 saying, okay, well, what if you did a typo and you had to enter it again?
 Well, that's okay.
 First of all, in a minute, or actually in an average of 30 seconds, you're going to get
 another one, and that will be okay.
 But if it's a typo, it's wrong anyway.
 So if you correct it, then the server goes, oh, you got it right.
 And in the process of getting it right, it will no longer ever accept that again.
 So it's, it's very cool.
 So some of the, some of these things involve hardware.
 There's even another company that has something called the I button, Dallas semiconductor produce
 something called an I button, which look, it looks like exactly like one of the little
 tiny hearing aid batteries that we're all familiar with, because you know, our calculators
 use them or, you know, obviously people with hearing aids use them, you know, the, the,
 the little round cell, which is very small and has, has a sort of a, an inner circle
 contact on the other side, well, Dallas semiconductor realized, hey, we're, we're able to provide
 power and data over two wires.
 So they build crypto chips into something that looks exactly like a hearing aid battery,
 and then mount it on a little paddle that you can hook onto your key ring.
 It doesn't have a battery in it.
 But when you press it against their little socket, you know, it charges it.
 Well, if it powers it, it powers it up.
 And then it's able to do a little security protocol to say, give me your ID number, give
 me your serial number.
 So it is, it's, it's a very clever technique.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 And super small, lightweight, easy to have on your key ring.
 And it provides again, it's something you have that, that nobody else has, right.
 But the problems with all of these, something you physically have can easily be lost.
 Yes, exactly, or loaned it or loan.
 Yes.
 Exactly.
 And it's like, so, so, so, you know, you, you tell your child to only withdraw a hundred
 dollars.
 Well, in, or 20 or whatever to go to the movies, you know, and certainly obviously there is
 accountability when, when the, um, the bill comes at the end of the month, but still you,
 you've, you've given up control.
 Right.
 So the next factor in this, this sort of this hierarchy of authentication is something
 you are, which is to say some measurable physical characteristic.
 Um, fingerprints, of course, are, are very popular and have long been used.
 Speech patterns are, are also being used.
 Um, you've probably also seen Leo over the years, there was an attempt to use the, the
 typing rhythm.
 Right.
 Right.
 And then you're coming back, people keep talking about that.
 Yeah, I mean, and it's, it's, it's interesting because no two people type with the same kind
 of rhythm.
 Right.
 Uh, many people don't type with any rhythm at all.
 Um, and of course now that requires something active on the computer that is down at a level
 where the rhythm of your typing can be received, for example, that would not work through a
 web form because you, you, you type offline, essentially, and press the button to, to submit.
 And then of course, um, uh, the more high tech retinal scan, uh, or some other biometric.
 In fact, just, just yesterday, um, I wanted to, to grab something from my, uh, server cabinet
 at level three.
 And so I, so I went there, they use the interestingly enough, they use the second two approaches
 and not the first.
 That is something I have and something I am, um, I have a badge from them.
 And so I put the, I, I waved the badge near a reader, which tells them who, who's badge
 this is, but it doesn't, it doesn't tell them that it's me, of course, I exactly, because
 I could have given it to someone else.
 But then the next thing I have to do is stick my hand in this, it's sort of a plate with,
 with some poles sticking up, right, little one inch high posts.
 So I put my hand and all the way up into this so that the posts rests in, in, in between
 each of my fingers.
 And this thing measures the physical characteristics of my hand.
 So it's not exactly a scanner or is it well, no, no, and this is what's interesting and
 it's significant is that is that certainly there are probably people around, I'm sure
 there are walking around who have a hand measurement that is indistinguishable from my, uh, but
 they don't have the card.
 Exactly.
 Or the likelihood of them.
 The card is highly unlikely, exactly.
 And the likelihood of someone stealing my card, who has the exact same hand size that
 I have is low enough to, to, to make this much more secure than just using a card.
 And certainly just using my hand measurements is really not secured at all.
 So, so the point I want to make about this, because it's, it's clever the way it interacts
 and it relates to fingerprints in an important way that we'll talk about in a second is that
 just using a hand size really isn't enough to identify me uniquely in the world.
 So I wouldn't want to use that, but using my, my card first tells the system, okay, now
 check the one hand size we have on record or maybe one or two, whatever, depending on
 how many people are going to use this card.
 In fact, with this system that level three uses, it's a one for one association.
 If I had Sue or Greg meeting access to the level three facility, they would have their
 own card and their own, their own hand measured for that card.
 Right.
 So there's a one to one mapping, but, but the point is this thing never says, Oh, look,
 this looks like Steve's hand.
 Let's unlock the door.
 No, instead it's, Oh, we've just sniffed Steve's card and we know what Steve's hand
 size is.
 So let's see if, if the hand that's about to be put on the scanner qualifies as being
 Steve's.
 Right.
 So it's a, it's a really nice system that, Oh, and nothing to remember.
 Notice that I'm not putting in a pin or a password in this system.
 However, I noticed that on the scanner, there is a keypad, which so probably if, if level
 three or even third level, uh, authentication, yes, yes, all, all of the technology is there
 for me to have to enter a pin and a card and my hand.
 And I guess they're thinking, okay, let's, you know, two, two, two, you know, don't
 the hard two out of the, uh, out of two out of three is, is good enough.
 Right.
 Fascinating.
 And I think a lot of network operation centers use something like that.
 That seems to be very common.
 Yeah.
 And in fact, as I was thinking about talking about this today, I realized that even if
 someone got my card, who had my hand, and I don't mean that literally because of course
 we've all, we've, we've all seen the spy movies where guys, right, exactly cut, cut
 my hand off and take it to level three or, or that work some, uh, yeah, I think it would.
 I don't think it has to be a living hand measuring the heat of the hand.
 I don't think so.
 And of course, of course, you know, in all of the spy movies, we've also seen where you
 get your finger chopped off and then they, you know, they carry the finger and stick it
 up on the fingerprint scanner or, or in on mission impossible, you know, they're always
 peeling, you know, plastic rubbers, fake fingerprint, you know, impressions off of you.
 So, so fingerprints are interesting because they, they're sort of like hand size.
 That is to say, uh, you, yes, you could argue that finger, that certainly a whole set of
 fingerprints, a whole hand are provide enough unique identification to be strong.
 On the other hand, given the opportunity to get DNA, which is absolutely unique, that's
 what forensic researchers and scientists and, you know, forensic criminologists use rather
 than fingerprints.
 Right.
 And in fact, a, a fingerprint is vague enough and also susceptible enough to damage from,
 you know, an exacto knife that you and, and, and fingerprint databases tend to be huge,
 that they don't really work the way they show them on CSI, where it's like, oh, scanning
 and all these fingerprints and people's faces are flashing by because I mean, those databases
 are way too huge.
 The way the way fingerprint scanners work is that a number of, of characteristics of
 all fingerprints are found.
 There are swirls, there are breaks, there are places where, where like four ridges fade
 out or, or like merge into two sort of like a Y intersection in the road.
 Well, those things are easily spotted by software and they create position dependent marks.
 That's then used to make a robust index into, and that index is used to index this criminal
 fingerprint database in order to then sort of go to a successive level of refinement and
 decide if that's who you are.
 In the case of, of fingerprint scanners, which are now appearing on PCs, they're, they
 operate much more like the level three analogy where you, you have very few people who are
 logged in to this fingerprint scanner, you know, yourself, maybe a spouse or your kids
 or something, I was going to say your dog, but not in this case because it's not a paw
 print, it's not a paw print scanner, and, and so as you drag your, as you drag your fingerprint
 or your, your finger across this, one or maybe a multiple times, it builds up an image and
 then all it has to do is it says, okay, all I need to verify is that within sufficient
 level of certainty, I recognize this fingerprint from among one or two or three.
 And again, the likelihood of some random thief having a fingerprint sufficiently close to
 yours is just diminishingly small.
 And since, since you are able to train this multiple times and you are using it continually,
 it's able to adapt over time to slow changes that may evolve in your fingerprint, like,
 you know, a little cut appear somewhere, it's like, okay, well, that's, we'll forgive that
 because all the rest of the finger looks good.
 So again, you're only really doing a comparison against a very small database of, of potential
 matches.
 So you can afford to do a, a very good job of that.
 Right.
 And the other cool thing about the newest scanners, you know, the original scanner was
 sort of a, a, a plate you put your, your thumb or your first, your forefinger on or something.
 And, and it would take a picture of the whole thing.
 There have been lots, there's been lots of work on how easily that is forged just by using
 some rubber cement, it turns out, you know, you can very easily fool these because they're
 not checking for the, for the, for the life-ness of the fingerprint.
 And so those things like the mission impossible, you know, rubber finger really do work on those,
 but the newer scanners are, which are even less expensive and so are becoming predominant
 are, are more like a line scanner, where you have to actively draw your finger across that.
 Well, that's superior because it's a dynamic process.
 It's much, it's much less easy to make a rubber finger that is going to fool that than, than
 it is if you just, you know, had a Xerox copy of, of your fingerprint and just stuck it
 down on the window.
 But it turns out that all of these things, while they are better, there are attacks that
 are workable attacks against these kinds of things.
 Now it's interesting that you mentioned B of A and site key and, and you know, it's certainly
 got a lot, it's gotten a lot of press because it's a very sort of, oh, touchy, feely sort
 of solution.
 Well, the idea with B of A site key is you give it your username first.
 It looks up your username and says, ah, Leo has registered a picture of of his trash can
 with us.
 Exactly.
 And so it sends back.
 But you give it a phrase too that goes to it.
 Exactly, a phrase, a phrase and a picture, it sends those back to you.
 Now what that's supposed to do is give them fishing, you know, PHISH fishing protection.
 That is, it's supposed to verify that you're really talking to B of A because they know
 they have a picture of your trash can that you provided them when you set this up and
 no fishing site would be able to do that.
 And so, so the idea is that it's like, oh, good.
 Now I know I'm talking to B of A and then they prompt you for your password, right?
 Now the problem is that they need this to be robust in the event that you want to sign
 on at the library, you know, God help you, you don't want to sign on at the library.
 We certainly covered that enough, but the point is that they know what happens if your
 IP changes, what happens if you're at a neighbor's who you trust, who you want to, I mean,
 or you're, you know, you use a laptop and that's what happens because I sign on a three or
 four different IP addresses or I'm in a hotel and I'm signing onto my bank.
 Okay, we do you don't want to admit that here on security now.
 Well, no, wait a minute, it's an SSL connection.
 So I'm okay even doing it at the hotel, right?
 Well, yes, although it's my laptop, I'm not using their computer.
 It's your laptop and we know that you would be careful, but the way phishing sites still
 crack this.
 Well, okay, well, first there is a non-phishing approach or that is a simple way of breaking
 this.
 MIT did a study where they deliberately presented people who were used to using the site key
 system with a page that did not challenge them with the picture.
 Oh, I'd be happy.
 I don't want to see a stupid picture.
 People complain about it all the time.
 I don't want the picture.
 I just want to sign in.
 Get this 97% of people didn't notice that they weren't being given a picture of their
 teddy bear or their dog spot or their relief or their exactly.
 And the other problem is, and I'm sure you've had this happen, is there were instances where
 you will be asked for some additional information.
 When I use a new computer and I'm going to get from exactly the address, then it wants
 a bunch of, it's a real pain because it asks all these silly questions.
 Well, and that's, it turns out, is the weakness because if a phishing site creates a pseudo
 site for B of A and gets you to click on a link and we've all seen and we've talked
 about how it's possible to obscure the URL so it looks like you're still on B of A.
 Let's say I'm not paying attention.
 I think I'm still at B of A.
 Exactly.
 So what B of A will do is they will see you don't have a cookie.
 Oh, and by the way, they use flash cookies, which we will be talking about here in the
 four law.
 They're not using standard browser cookies or using flash.
 Also, but I do know that they are a user of flash cookies.
 And so, and it says so in their privacy statement about the whole site key system.
 So if they see that you're at a different computer that doesn't have a cookie, that's
 when they ask you some additional information.
 Well, it turns out that if you were a victim of phishing, which is what this whole thing
 is designed to prevent, you log into what looks like B of A and it's not.
 They ask you your username and your state.
 So you fill that in.
 The phishing site turns around and submits that to a real B of A site key.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Give me your site key.
 Now, actually, you won't get the site key, will it, though, because it's enough?
 What happens is the B of A site, ask the question, which the phishing site turns around and
 asks you.
 So you fill in the answers.
 So you fill in the answers and it fills in the answers.
 It sends it back to V of A, B of A, then finally says, oh, this must really be Leo, in a hotel,
 sends the site key, which the phishing site bounces through, providing you with the picture
 you're expecting and you give it your login.
 So it's completely stupid.
 It's completely stupid, which I always knew.
 Yes.
 Not so, not so clearly approved, but it seemed to struck me as a really silly.
 The real problem is people who get full by phishing scams are not savvy enough to be
 figuring out how the site key works, what to watch out for and all that.
 That's the whole point.
 They're trying to protect people who are not savvy.
 Exactly.
 And we've just seen that a non-savvy person can still get fooled even with the picture
 of their kitty cat on the screen is like, oh, I know I'm using B of A. I'm going to transfer
 all my money.
 Well, so there's no reason for me to go through this stupid, you know, the pass phrase I use
 with it is very insulting to a site keys, it annoys me so much, even though I know nobody
 at B of A is reading it, it just makes me happy.
 Well, the site key and the word stupid effing site key go come up along with it, it just
 makes me feel better.
 I recommend this to everyone.
 Well, so essentially the takeaway from this is that multi-factor authentication is generally
 a good thing.
 And that's what they're trying to do here.
 This is multi-factor.
 Yes.
 Well, that's what it is.
 I mean, well, technically, right, it's more than just you using a password, actually, what
 they're trying to do there is they're trying to provide the authentication, which already
 really exists in the SSL secure connection.
 Oh, yeah, that's true.
 And in fact, that's where it's really good because, but again, that's what people aren't
 checking.
 That is, if you verify that you have a secure connection and you take the trouble to check
 that the certificate and you see that it's issued from Bank of America, directly from
 Equifax or Verisine or somebody trusted, that's the way to know you've got a really good non-spooth
 connection.
 But exactly following your point, Leo, typical users don't do that.
 And the problem is this thing is trying to say, we're really B of A. Look, here's a picture
 of your kitty cat.
 And so it's actually providing a false sense of verification because it has been cracked.
 It has been hacked.
 There are phishing sites that are using man-in-the-middle attacks on the site key technology.
 And unfortunately, I guess Yahoo has adopted it and a bunch of other companies have adopted
 it after B of A made such a big splash about it.
 And it's like, well, okay, this is better than nothing you could argue, but once again,
 the fundamental technology of verifying the validity of your SSL, secure sockets connection
 is a much better approach because it's real and that cannot be, as we've seen, man-in-the-middle
 attacks are thwarted by SSL as long as you verify the authenticity of the certificate that
 you've got.
 Yeah.
 Well, and I think this is a good example of a company going for the appearance of security
 and not really the fact of security.
 This is such an obvious, intrusive technique that it gives you the feeling of, oh, I must
 be taken care of me when it's found as absolutely none of that.
 Yeah.
 I think that I mean, I like the idea of simple biometrics, for example, using a little fingerprint
 scanner on a laptop, I think makes a lot of sense.
 As long as the underlying, as long as what's done with the fingerprint, that is the underlying
 technology to deal with the fingerprint makes everything else secure.
 For example, you really need this stuff stored in the BIOS and for that to unlock your hard
 drive, for example, rather than waiting for windows to boot and then using that to log
 on because by the time that's happened, all bets are off.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Now, all of this, this whole issue of multi-factor authentication, this actually came out of
 the research I've been doing into something we'll be talking about soon, which is the
 Trusted Platform Module TPM because that ends up being an interestingly robust or at least
 robustable, there's a new word for us, robustable.
 Another way of providing a very secure authentication factor, which is, of course, has a mixed
 blessing because again, and you could argue that even these approaches are mixed blessing
 because to the degree that they limit user freedom, there are people are saying, "Well,
 I'd rather just use my password, my username and password because I want the flexibility
 of sharing it with some other people."
 So, again, all of these things are involved trade-offs and if someone's going to have
 their retina scanned, they might object to a laser being beamed into their eyeball.
 You know, that's actually what the customs in the U.S. is using now, is a retinal scan
 and finger printing.
 And I had the passport.
 I have been, yes, exactly.
 I have been fingerprinted as I've been going between here and Toronto.
 Have you had a retinal scan?
 Yeah, actually, last year sometime, they didn't say, you know, "Stick your thumb here."
 And I was like, "Oh, wait a minute, no.
 I'm thinking of the DMV.
 It was the last time I renewed my driver's license."
 They do.
 If you're coming from the U.S. generally into Canada, they don't, or vice versa, I should
 say.
 But if you're coming into the U.S. for many other nations, they absolutely do.
 And now they're using, there's kind of a fast pass thing they've got for, they call
 it "can pass" in Canada and "Nexus" I think is another word they use in the States, that
 allows you to kind of breeze through with your passport and a retinal scan.
 And again, it's dual-factor authentication being the idea behind it.
 And of course, the reason they let you do this is they've pre-interviewed you and they've
 done a background check and so forth.
 That sounds like a cool thing, Leo.
 I'll definitely sign up for that.
 Yeah, I'm going to sign up.
 I don't mind if some laser scans my retina.
 Right.
 And I've watched people do it.
 You know, in Vancouver, there's sometimes a very long line to get into Canada.
 And I've watched these guys just whip through the Nexus line and they bend over, they get
 their eyeball scanned and they wave it.
 They bend over to get their eyeball scanned.
 Well, they're bending forward.
 Let's put it that way.
 Oh, I see bend down.
 Yes, the machine is a little lower than the eye height.
 And it looks like then you do talk to a person, but very briefly and you whisk right through
 all the rest of us are standing in line.
 So it's kind of a neat thing and the sad thing is that a lot of people coming to the states
 now from other countries are really put through the third degree, including fingerprints
 and pictures and passports.
 Well, you know, the nice thing about that is it appears that retinas are very hard to
 spoof.
 I'm not sure how you would spoof someone's retina.
 I mean, especially if you're under supervision by a guard, you could imagine you could make
 a fake eyeball and then you wouldn't have to bend over.
 Right.
 But at the same time, I like the idea of, for example, being known as somebody who's a
 member of Nexus and if you could like check off, require me to have my retina scanned,
 then that would provide because I'm wanting a stronger authentication.
 It would prevent somebody from spoofing me and coming into the country pretending to
 be me.
 Right.
 Right.
 So it makes perfect sense.
 It's a good way to do it.
 And in this day and age of heightened security, it's, you know, whatever it takes, I guess.
 Well, and here we are talking about security now and the issue of authentication, which
 is certainly going to be an ongoing concern in the future because, you know, with everything
 moving electronic with more and more services going online, the idea of establishing your
 identity to whoever it is you're having a transaction with is increasingly important.
 And unfortunately, the bad guys are seeing more and more gain from coming up with ways
 to circumvent whatever authentication schemes people come up with.
 That's true.
 This podcast brought to you by the good folks at nerds on site.
 Are you a nerd?
 Yeah.
 Well, you might want to visit.
 I want to be a nerd.
 Comnerds on site is growing.
 They need more nerds to service their customers and looking for nerds with all competencies
 and skills from PC and Mac experts, especially as like Cisco and Oracle.
 You name it.
 They need it.
 Fix it.
 Technicians, website designers, programmers, project managers, sales trainers, security
 experts, anti-virus gurus and more, especially those nerds who troubleshoot, tear apart and
 rebuild their own systems in their spare time.
 Nerds are independent contractors, so you'll be in business for yourself, but not by yourself.
 And I like that focus on your passion, not the burdens of running a business.
 They're all over the world.
 If you can hear the sound of my voice, there's a nerds on site in your country in most likely
 hood and no eyeball scan necessary.
 Nerds on site has 250 competencies in their university of nerdology ranging from systems,
 architecture, design, software development, full on-source IT departments to desktop support
 and Soho residential IT services.
 If you're a nerd, you love working with people, go to www.Iwanttobeanerd.com and register for
 a Nerds only meeting in your area today.
 We thank Nerds on site for their support.
 If you want to know more about authentication, I bet you Steve's got lots of information
 on his website, grc.com, am I right, sir?
 Yes, sir.
 That's where the show notes live, the 16 kilobit version of the show for the bandwidth impaired,
 the transcriptions, the fine handmade transcriptions by Elaine, and of course, Steve's a fine
 array of free security programs like shields up, secureable, de-combobulator, unplug and
 pray and on and on and on and of course, who could forget, spin right, everybody's favorite
 disc recovery and maintenance utility.
 So that's I think that that's just a fascinating subject, this multi-factor authentication and
 it makes me want to do more to authenticate myself.
 Well, Elaine, you are authentic for all of us.
 PGP doesn't seem enough.
 We absolutely know you are you.
 There are various interesting offshoots of this that we will be discussing in the coming
 weeks because authentication is a big issue or should I say a big factor in all things
 happening on the internet now and only more so in the future.
 I think ultimately the notion of username and password over time will end up being considered
 no longer sufficient for many applications and people will maybe will all just have something
 like an RSA secure ID dongle or various schemes will become popular and people will get used
 to them and appreciate the additional security that they do provide even though you could
 argue nothing is perfect.
 Then again, people aren't so it's actually amazing that we're able to do as good a job
 as we can.
 As we do.
 Hey, thank you so much, Steve.
 Talk to you next week, we will talk next week and I thank you all for joining us.
 See you next time on security now.
