 NetCasts you love from people you trust, this is twist bandwidth for security now is provided
 by AOL radio at AOL dot com slash podcasting.
 This is Security Now with Steve Gibson, Episode 99 for the 5th of July 2007, TPM.
 Security Now is brought to you by Astaro, makers of the Astaro Security Gateway on the
 web at www dot AST ARO dot com.
 And by Nerds on site, looking to grow your IT service business, find out how Nerds on
 site can help visit I want to be a nerd dot com.
 It's time for security now, the podcast that tells you why you should be afraid and what
 to do about it.
 Steve Gibson is here.
 We don't want to be accused of unnecessarily alarming people.
 No, no, but it's true that there are things to fear.
 Well, I fear is not the right way and right things to prepare for.
 You know, I have to confess and I actually, I mentioned this during the presentation, remember,
 I was off in Cambridge speaking to I was actually the keynote speaker for a conference that
 Harvard was hosting last week.
 Wow, that's pretty prestigious.
 I've noticed that my own awareness of the security issues is heightened as a consequence
 of listening to myself when I, you know, talk to you, you don't normally listen to yourself.
 No, it does, you know, I'm not scared is absolutely the wrong term.
 We're talking about what you should be aware of and what you should do prophylactically
 to protect yourself.
 That's all.
 And I think half of the value of this, maybe more is just learning about all these interesting
 technologies like crypto, you know, that there are, there is useful we're going to learn
 about one today.
 That's very interesting.
 Well, we are.
 And in fact, I've, I've had more and more people that I'm, who's postings on the security
 now page when they're, when they're submitting things are saying, you know, when you and
 Leo wander off topic, it's just fine.
 So don't let those grousy people who are complaining, you know, that you guys are talking about
 non security stuff, you know, restrict you from doing so because that's why we do podcasts.
 If we wanted to keep on point, we'd do it on the radio or on TV or we'd give speeches
 at Harvard.
 So today we're going to talk about TPM, yes, the trusted platform module, it's something
 I've actually been looking into now for months in preparation for finally getting enough
 of a feel for it that I could characterize it.
 It's, it's, it's been an elusive thing for me to get a handle on because it's not, I
 don't know.
 I mean, now I have it.
 And, and it feels like, Oh, well, of course now I can explain what this all is.
 But for the longest time, I just, I didn't get what it really was where the limits were,
 where the boundaries were.
 I now understand it well enough, I think to give people a coherent sense for what it's
 all about.
 And it has been very controversial.
 So we'll talk about that too.
 Let's say that.
 And I know why.
 And I know why it was mismarked.
 So yeah, we'll definitely forget to talk about that and we'll address those controversies.
 And we, of course, we'll take a look at some of your letters in just a bit and perhaps
 any addendum or a rat, but before we do that, I do want to remind everybody this podcast
 brought to you as always by the good folks at a star O A S T A R O dot com.
 The star of security gateway is the premier security device on the market today.
 And now the new version seven makes it even better.
 Here's what you do.
 Staro security gateway, you call 888 the number four A S T A R O and they will set one up in
 your place of business and you can try it for yourself.
 It's really the best way to understand what this does because it does so much encryption
 at the at the gateway for all your desktops based on S MIME or open PGP.
 So it's completely transparent encryption and decryption.
 It does SSL course, it does all the obvious security stuff, including email security, anti
 spam, anti fishing, dual virus protection for email.
 And as I said, transparent encryption, it also does web filtering.
 That's including content filtering, of course, anti virus scanning, anti spyware, it even
 allows you to control instant messaging and peer to peer and complete network level protection
 firewalls or mode access VPN intrusion protection.
 I mean, this is a lot.
 The staro security gateway, version seven, I'll tell you, it's amazing.
 Call 888 the number four A S T A R O a number of people have asked us because I've mentioned
 before it's absolutely free.
 If you're a non commercial user and they said, well, how do I get it?
 There's a download button right on the front page.
 You can download the staro security gateway software appliance.
 It'll turn any PC into an ASG appliance and it's absolutely free for non commercial use.
 And that includes, by the way, something they used to charge for subscriptions to the anti
 virus and any spam updates that is staro up to date, you get everything for 10 IPs or
 10 users and 1000 current concurrent connections.
 It's like everything you never want.
 So if you're a business call 888 the number four A S T A R O or visit A S T A R O dot com.
 And you can download that it's a 30 day trial.
 But if you're, if you're a non commercial, don't worry, you get to keep using it.
 It's really quite amazing.
 A S T A R O dot com.
 We thank them for their support of security now.
 Time for the mailbag or do you want to do a Denda first or rat?
 Mailbag, I think.
 I have to say now that I'm, I, you know, well, first I should mention that you and I are
 recording two podcasts today.
 We're doing 99, which is this one and we're going to record next week's immediately afterwards.
 I guess, are you.
 I'm going to Canada.
 Yeah.
 You're up in Hoover doing doing stuff.
 Steve is so dedicated.
 And some of the podcasts, the news ones when I'm in Canada, we don't really do, but Steve
 is so dedicated that we do two ahead of time so that we don't miss an episode possibly
 because you want to get to 100.
 Well, well, yeah, we are, we are, we are, we are there now.
 What I want to mention is being a hundred, we're at a mod four also, of course.
 So it's going to be a Q and A episode.
 And so, so this morning I was rummaging through and catching up on a lot of the, the postings
 to the security now page.
 And I don't know what's happened, Leo, but there's been this a clear increase in, I don't
 know, our listeners involvement and participation and feedback.
 What I'm getting is so much good commentary that I want to share some of it today.
 But what I'm thinking of doing maybe is we're getting so much good feedback from people.
 I mean, really interesting stories and, and sort of tangents off of what we're talking
 about that I'm, that I'm, I mean, and so the mailbag is full to overflowing at this point
 that I'm, I'm thinking maybe of doing mod four plus two would just be mailbag episodes.
 Okay.
 So the idea bag, the whole thing, exactly.
 Because I mean, there's, there's a couple of long ones that I want to share with people
 because they're really neat and, and then we'll discuss them, of course.
 So they'll, so it'll be like, you know, interesting stuff that our listeners are providing for
 us to talk about, not just a question to be answered, but whatever it is there, they're,
 you know, they're, they want to discuss.
 And so, so we'll alternate between regular shows and mailbag and Q and A essentially.
 So mod two plus four will be mailbag.
 But in the meantime, uh, you cannot believe how many people told us how to pronounce the
 unpronounceable.
 Aberstwith.
 Exactly.
 And it's aber wrist with, aberstwith, and you know who grew up next door, our very own
 Will Harris.
 Oh, no kidding.
 Yeah.
 So he, of course, for immediately call me said, what do you want to come on, mate?
 It's aberstwith or whatever it is, aberstwith, so I wanted to acknowledge everybody who,
 who posted, uh, okay, here's how you pronounce that.
 So we now know, um, a listener in Sacramento who must have been anonymous or I would have
 put his name here mentioned that, uh, referring to the, the mind mentioned that the, uh, it,
 this was from our episode last, the, um, uh, identity meta, meta, meta system stuff where
 we were talking about Microsoft's medication.
 Yes.
 Exactly.
 We're talking about Microsoft's card space.
 And I mentioned how I liked the prior name info card better.
 That was their working name and he commented that info card is an apple trademark because
 there was something called info card back in the IMAX days.
 He says he has an old copy of it.
 And that's why Microsoft was unable to use it interest, which, you know, it's, it may
 be very true.
 I don't know that for fact, but certainly I never heard of it, but I'm sure it's, you
 know, all the who knows.
 Bill Holton of Gainesville, Florida writes that he is human and, and that reminded me
 that I had said maybe it was in last week's podcast that this week we were going to be
 talking about capture technologies, you know, the, and under the title, are you human?
 And it wasn't until I saw his posting that I thought, oh, that's right.
 That's what we were going to talk about.
 But I was all revved up and geared up to talk about TPM.
 So we'll perhaps do that next week.
 Not really sure.
 But anyway, he next week, it'll be two weeks because we're doing, uh, Oh, bear.
 Thank you.
 So one on one at the soonest.
 So oops.
 And that would be a mailbag episode already.
 So anyway, but, oh, no, wait, it wouldn't be today because mailbags are definitely divisible
 by two.
 Yes.
 So Bill Holton says not only is he human, but that most computers don't think he is because
 he's blind.
 Uh huh.
 Captures are a notorious problem for, yep, people with poor vision.
 Yeah.
 And so he says the increasing use of capture is locking me and others like me out of more
 and more sites.
 When you do your, are you, when you do your, are you human podcast, please mention the
 need to find non visual based captures and ones for the deaf blind.
 Well, that's going to be a real challenge who can't even use the audio capture sites
 like Google and Yahoo are adopting to help the blind get around the capture problem.
 You may want to try the audio capture to see how unusable it is from here.
 The audio capture on mine, I'm using now for my emails to avoid spam.
 I'm using the Carnegie Mellon one, which I know you're going to talk about because it's
 a really cool idea.
 It's the recapture.
 And I thought, Oh, this is great.
 Cause I was, I had been sensitized to the issue of capture.
 That's the, that's where they put that weird text that you can't, the machine supposedly
 can't read and humans barely can and you type it in and then you know you're not a machine.
 But the problem is, of course, if you can't see, you can't type it in.
 So this has audio, but listen to this, this is how they get around the machine reading
 the audio.
 Oh, my God, it's not, that's no, you can do it though.
 Right?
 So they've done the same thing with the audio that they have done with the visual.
 Exactly.
 Oh my God.
 You know, I could do it sometimes I cannot type in the visual captures.
 Very difficult.
 And that, and I have to say the audio is difficult too, but that's kind of the point.
 I mean, I understand that it's difficult.
 You only have to do it once on my site.
 You get the email address and you can use it from then on, but you know, it's tough.
 Accessibility on the web is getting harder and harder as we get more and more flash and
 scripted stuff and it's just, it's difficult, but it's certainly worth doing.
 We're redesigning the radio show site and that's one of the things that is a very high
 priority is to make sure it's accessible.
 A lot of blind people, of course, listen to the radio and podcasts, I might have.
 Yeah.
 It really does make sense.
 Yep.
 Okay.
 Last mail bag submission was, it was a long one, but interesting Jeremy Clark of Ottawa,
 Canada says, I love the podcast and I listen to every single one.
 I think you have got EV certificates all wrong though.
 Okay.
 So the EV, I mentioned and was grousing about it a week or two ago.
 Those are the things that are super expensive from Veracine, which are what enables you
 to get the green background in IE7 as a fishing preventer.
 And the idea is that, you know, you know, I'm already unhappy that this whole certificate
 thing, that seems like such a scam that they expire every couple of years and I've got
 to pay $700 or something like that for, for another two years, their EV is enhanced verification
 or some acronym of that, of that sort for which they get a ton of money.
 Anyway, he says, EV certificates are a signal of legitimacy, not of security of, okay, of
 legitimacy, not of security.
 Yes.
 And they were created specifically to combat fishing.
 Right.
 And the days before international banking, banks would build elaborate buildings.
 The reason for this is often considered by non-economists to be competitive.
 However, economists know that if we're out of competition, there would be similar architectural
 arms races in other industries, yet banks were different somehow.
 The real reason is that the bank could afford to build beautiful buildings while the fraudsters
 who would open a bank and then skip town with the money deposited could not.
 Right.
 A Baroque building was a signal of legitimacy.
 These scenarios are called signaling games in economics and game theory that only a legitimate
 bank could afford to send.
 The problem in the online world, as you well know, is that people use the same rationale.
 If they go to a fishing site and it has a nice layout with scripting and menus and animation,
 they assume it's real.
 Enter EV certificates, the online equivalent of building a nice bank.
 It only makes economic sense to get one if you plan on sticking around.
 A nice website is a signal that anyone can duplicate and therefore it isn't a good signal
 at all.
 An EV enhanced certificate that costs 15,000 per year is not easily duplicated and therefore
 is an effective signal.
 If you are legitimate and can't afford one, you probably are not a target for fishing
 in the first place, which actually I thought was sort of a really good point that he made.
 If you don't have the name, if you don't have the same need to signal your legitimacy
 as PayPal, eBay, Amazon or an online bank, all of whom can afford one.
 And then he says, I've written more on this exact topic if you're interested, blah, blah,
 but anyway, I just, I loved what he said and this is the kind of really good stuff that's
 appearing in the mailbag now.
 Yeah, it's fascinating.
 There is, I think, a flaw in the logic there.
 I have to point out, which is that maybe and maybe it's a flaw in the way it's been communicated
 what that green bar means.
 But as long as you're doing that green bar, pretty soon people associate it with safe.
 And as he points out, you know, if you can be safe and not be able to afford it, unlike
 a bank where you're saying, well, if he's a big bank, he's going to be able to afford
 a nice building.
 He's not necessarily the case.
 So on a website, you know, you could be legitimate and he says, well, it doesn't matter because
 nobody's fishing you and what does matter to the end user because they pay attention to
 whether there's a green bar or not.
 Yes.
 And exactly.
 And that's, of course, the foundation of my gripe is that you're legitimate, but you
 can't afford it.
 Well, I don't want to because, I mean, it's just extortion.
 But he makes a good point, nobody's going to fish grc.com actually, actually, I take
 it back.
 And that's the other flaw in this is he's assuming economic gain in that pure if it's
 pure economics, that's true.
 But people might fish grc.com to put a fraudulent security program, sure out.
 So that isn't purely economic.
 So there are some flaws.
 This isn't exactly analogous to the bank.
 I think I think your gripe still stands people and people would want to fish grc because
 they could say, Hey, get our free new security program and it's a Trojan horse.
 And if it were something I could buy once, if I could get a lifetime.
 Well, in fact, that would create the kind of lock in that Veracine would like to have
 with their customers.
 Because, you know, in fact, they sent me a questionnaire the other day saying, Oh, how
 happy are you with our certificate services?
 And I just, I took the opportunity to tell them exactly how I felt about the fact that
 I was having to fork over all this money every couple years.
 I said, you know, I like your service.
 I've, I've used it for years, but boy, if anyone came along that offered, you know, the
 same thing for less money, there, there is not much lock in here.
 But as I was going to say, I, I would buy it once I'd even spend 15 grand one time.
 If then I could have like a reduced annual rate and still get the greenness having paid
 for it once.
 Well, and again, I think there are people who are giving away free, good free legitimate
 security software who might be fished, who have no economic value, and no economic incentive,
 and still can't afford this for a very good reason, they're not paying, asking people
 to pay for it.
 So I think this is a, this is a particularly capitalistic point of view on this, in this
 situation.
 And it doesn't really address the real issue.
 I agree with you, Steve.
 I don't even think it should be 15,000.
 I understand, but you know, there are ways now to validate somebody without making them
 pay a lot of money.
 That's pure greed.
 I'm sorry.
 Yeah.
 I know.
 That's pure greed.
 There's a lot more.
 And I think Jeremy did have a typo.
 I think it's 1500.
 Not 50,000.
 It's not 50,000.
 Yeah.
 But even the next one.
 I did have one more note here.
 I scroll down.
 That one was so long at Eric Espinoza at Pasadena in the mailbag.
 He says, "I'm a systems security guy for a government organization," and actually his
 email gives it away.
 He's a well-known propulsion laboratory.
 Oh, okay.
 He certainly does know, you know, his technology.
 He says, "And I've followed your podcast since the beginning.
 I usually recommend this podcast to people showing interest in technology.
 There are a few things we disagree on, but for the most part, we're on the same page
 on everything.
 Just wanted to give an anecdote about how checking the certificate for a varicine or
 thought or, you know, forensic, your trusted provider here is not enough to ensure integrity
 of the site.
 My girlfriend, after seeing blood diamond, which is a recent movie, is not any longer
 into mind diamonds.
 She offers lab diamonds and asked me to get her a pair of earrings from a site she saw
 advertising in the LA Times called Diamond Essence.
 Turns out they misrepresented cubic zirconia as lab diamonds, but that's another story.
 I did my usual checks before putting my credit card in, which ours follows.
 I mean, this guy is way thorough, typed in the name into Google, looks for horror stories.
 Checking the cert, check the CRL, that is the certificate revocation list.
 For the registrar involved, all looked good, so I proceeded.
 When I woke up the next day, I got a call from my credit card company asking about various
 charges.
 My card had been hit by 10 different places, trying to rack up over $2,000 in charges.
 Fortunately, the bank blocked all but $10 of those transactions.
 Not being sure that this was the place where the whole thing originated.
 I decided to try one more time.
 This time I used a PayPal, one use virtual master card, smart, and I didn't even know
 that PayPal offered that, but now that I know I'm going to look into that because that sounds
 like a cool thing.
 Many BZ and MasterCard people do, and that's really neat.
 He says, "I had loaded up just the appropriate amount into my PayPal account and didn't allow
 the thing to pull from any other of my other accounts in the case of overdraft.
 I put the virtual master card number into the site, and bam, got hit with a ton of charges
 that were immediately declined."
 Interesting.
 I called up the company, asked to speak with management, and told him what had happened.
 He probably oblivious to the situation insisted that the problem was probably due to spam,
 infection, and so forth, blah, blah, blah, not our problem, not our fault.
 I informed him that I had already passed the info along to my bank and that he should expect
 a call telling him that I wasn't being malicious but have facts to back up that his site has
 been hijacked or hacked or something.
 He says, "Anyways, I have tried contacting Veracine to let them know of the incident,
 and today they are signed by—oh, and today they are signed by thought.
 Not sure if they're still hacked, but I guess that means that they changed their certificate
 as a consequence."
 He says, "But a valid cert," so the point is a valid cert is not enough, certainly in
 every case.
 Unfortunately, there isn't anything better.
 I'm not here promoting PayPal or anything, but I think the use of one-time cards with
 simple dispute procedures is what is needed online.
 That way, one can severely limit the amount of damage done, since most hackers use a $1
 charge to ensure the card is active, they'll take at most $1 from your account."
 Right.
 Wow.
 Very interesting saga.
 I mean, we're just getting such good postings to the page that, I think, you know, it may
 very well be that there'll be enough things to share.
 Starting with $1.02, we'll be doing a mailbag episodes.
 That's right.
 Speaking of good things to share, I do have one of my really fun and interesting spin
 right success story to share.
 Fireboy.
 This is from Aaron Jensen in, I think it's Lumbee, British Columbia.
 He says, "Hi Steve, I'm a computer systems technician for a large manufacturing company,
 but like many others in this field, I also support a few smaller clients and my family
 members in my off hours.
 I've been listening to security now since the beginning and don't think I've missed
 a single episode.
 I must be honest and admit that before you started talking about spin right success stories
 on the podcast, I was only familiar with GRC for the Shields Up utility which I've been
 using for years in the past.
 So, it's very cool that we're able to use this to get the word out.
 It was early into the security now episodes when I had my first occasion to run spin right
 on a laptop owned by a customer's daughter.
 The system was only partially booting into windows and then rebooting itself.
 This of course caused an endless loop many texts are familiar with.
 The daughter is an artist and her laptop was the only storage location for gigabytes worth
 of photos.
 Many of these photos were of her artwork that had long since been sold and now the photos
 were her only record of these paintings in her portfolio.
 Needless to say, needless to say she was terrified that all these images had been lost.
 I went online and purchased my first copy of spin right, ran it on the drive overnight
 and the next day the system booted without even an error.
 We immediately backed up all her artwork photos and she's still using the same hard drive
 to this day which I guess must be like more than a year ago since he's talking about early
 on in the podcast that this began.
 So he says she's still using the same hardest to this day although she backs it up much
 more often later.
 Later I kept a copy of spin right for myself as it was licensed to me but I went online
 with her parents and had them purchased another copy for their own use just in case her laptop
 drive had more problems down the road.
 Then he says in the last year or more I've had three to four other occasions where my
 copy of spin right really saved the day and in each case I went online with the computer's
 owner and help them purchase a copy of the program.
 I wanted each of them to have a copy of spin right because it's so easy to use if they ever
 needed it again plus I really wanted to support you and the incredible job you've done with
 this application.
 These days larger software developers seem to spend a lot of time trying to design the
 ultimate application for everyone.
 It has to do lots of things for lots of people so it can have the largest potential sales
 opportunities but in my experience I've always found that when a developer like yourself
 sinks tons of time and experience into an application that is designed to perform pretty
 much just one job it almost always does that job better than anything else.
 In every case where I've needed where I've had a need to run spin right it has done the
 job better than I could have ever expected even my mom has all of her data on her new
 computer because spin right saved it all when her old computer's hard drive crashed.
 Well there you go.
 Keep up the good work with spin right and security now and congratulations on the recent
 milestones hit by shields up so it's really nice really nice posting and I thank Aaron
 for sharing.
 It's nice to have good customers.
 I like that.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Well and he's I mean I couldn't ever ask for anything more than him using his copy which
 I have no problem with to fix somebody and then helping them to buy their own.
 You know it's like that's that's that's the perfect model.
 Well let's say are we going to let's I'm going to try to think maybe we should do nerds
 on site and then we will get now you know what I want to get to TPM we've been waiting
 along enough and I want to hear about it.
 We'll talk about nerds in a bit.
 Okay TPM trusted program module trusted platform module.
 Okay.
 So what TPM is basically it it it it called comes down to being a chip.
 It is a chip on the motherboard that is to say on the platform and now this might doesn't
 have to be though a PC it's come entirely foreseeable that these things will be in PDAs
 and cell phones in the future.
 It is it is meant to be tightly integrated to the platform that is to say soldered on
 to the motherboard although as it turns out it is on a small daughter board even on IBM's
 think pads which are TPM enhanced laptops.
 So it doesn't necessarily have to be non-removable but it's certainly not user removable that
 is it's not you know in a behind a door that anyone can open the screws and pull out it's
 meant to be integrated onto the platform.
 So so the reason it's called trusted platform module is that it is it is a component like
 you know like the processor chip set and so forth that is that is not user removable
 and that's part of the of the benefit it provides.
 So it is inherently just a microcontroller it's a it's a smart engine that has a number
 of characteristics the good news is it is completely open.
 The specification is open freely downloadable the there is source code now that is completely
 open source and GPL and for example Linux has drivers that can use the TPM it got off
 to a somewhat rocky start because when Microsoft announced palladium that is you may remember
 Leo was there very controversial you know we're going to lock the system down so tight
 that you know nothing will be able to escape it and we'll know exactly what's going on
 I mean it it raised you know the Microsoft's palladium announcement raised a ton of controversy
 in the industry well TPM is is related very peripherally if you'll pardon the pun because
 it is a an enabling component of palladium but in no way is it palladium nor is it DRM
 one of the other concerns was that palladium was like you know another march forward in
 Microsoft's DRM directed campaign and so so TPM the trusted platform module got discolored
 as a consequence of palladium of it sort of you know exactly it being something that palladium
 could use now Microsoft actually called their hardware side an SCP a secure crypto processor
 and so that was the acronym that they were using saying that palladium would would be
 software and hardware and on the hardware side would be an SCP now what what's interesting
 is that Microsoft has also just patented this their approach upside down and backwards
 and sideways so they're saying oh no this is not just us you know other other OS's could
 use it but it's entirely clear that they could also foreclose that from happening by leveraging
 their patents and of course we've just recently talked about Microsoft and their patents so
 it's and their leverage exactly so it's very clear to me that TPM is you know that's the
 solution it's probably going to win because it's going to get industry support and it's
 going to get multi-platform support you know I have it on two machines I have it on a motherboard
 that I recently purchased that's my I think I mentioned my you know my quad core machine
 it has TPM and my my ThinkPad T60 laptop has it and I've got it enabled it's worth noting
 and this is in the spec actually that it is disabled by default yeah so it is normally
 turned off because of the sensitivity there is to issues of privacy relating to this even
 though I really think those are misnomers okay now what is it what it provides is a number
 of basically crypto services it is the beauty of it is that there are things that you would
 like to do in crypto that you would like to shield from malicious software and that's really
 all it is it is it is it's the movement of some sensitive cryptographic operations into
 hardware for the sole purpose of preventing malicious software from from having access
 to those operations so it has non-volatile memory so again it's a chip and it's like
 a little co-processor it's got non-volatile memory and you can the user is able to say
 flush yourself and re-init and it will do that and you normally do these things from
 the BIOS so if you have a you have a T you have a TPM enhanced BIOS which understands
 that it's got the TPM hardware there with it on the motherboard and you're able to disable
 it completely in which case all of its BIOS support and functionality and access from
 or by the operating systems drivers are also disabled or you're able to reinitialize it
 basically saying forget everything you knew I'm you know I want you to restart well one
 of the things it has that is we've talked about before that it's very cool is a true
 random number generator not a PRNG that is a pseudo random number generator true random
 numbers being what you are able to generate in hardware taking advantage of things like
 thermal noise in the chip itself you know like literally electron migration or electron
 tunneling or or clock jitter where it's able to use just you know things that are non algorithmic
 in order to generate its random numbers so it's even a better random number generator
 than anything that software could do because as we know saw as we've said before software
 is 100% deterministic so there isn't a way that software can generate random numbers
 because it's designed not to you know it's specifically designed not to so random you
 know an algorithm can't be random it can be very good pseudo random but not truly random
 well the TPM has true random number generation capability it also has both volatile and non
 volatile memory so that it is able to store things persistently until such time as the
 user or the various API's that are used to access it tell that to change one of the things
 it has for example is a monotonic counter which is also very useful so it's got a counter
 which counts up forever meaning that it's able to solve problems with any kind of replay
 attacks by by having a counter which just starts at zero when it's born and it never
 wraps around it's got so many bits in the counter that it absolutely positively can
 never wrap around and anytime the chip feels that it's about to lose power as soon as it
 you know there there's like a power loss line then it writes that counter into non volatile
 memory it doesn't continually write it because as we know e-prom technology wears out over
 time so you would not want to be continually writing into the e-prom or the chip would
 burn itself out but when you shut it down then it stores the current state of the counter
 into non volatile memory so that when it when you power up again it starts up where it left
 off therefore guaranteeing that it will never have it will never reuse the same number again
 it also has full support for RSA asymmetric encryption so RSA compatible you know public
 key crypto it's able to generate public and private keys it's able to perform RSA operations
 and any one of these you're able to tell it what bit length you want but the spec requires
 at least 20,000 I'm sorry 2048 2048 bits of equivalent RSA key length so you know you
 know next generation key length for you know aimed at the future it also has built-in
 SHA-1 hashing of 160 bits minimum so for example one of the things that the chip does is when
 you initialize it and you say okay go it will use the true random number generator to generate
 a public and private key pair that is an asymmetric key pair and part of the coolness
 of this is that there is nothing you can do no commands you can give it that will ever
 cause it to export its private key it was so so there is just it's got this magic
 2048 bit private key which it generated using its true random number generator and there
 is no way you can ever force it to reveal it no no monitoring of the pins with a scope
 I'm always suspicious when I hear never though I mean hackers are so ingenious no but I mean
 that the technology doesn't permit it there's no you know I mean okay sir that you could
 have a bug in the chip there could be a mistake in the microcode there there could be that
 kind of thing but the but the specification does not allow for this private key to ever
 leave the chip and all of the crypto has been designed so that it doesn't need to so what
 this essentially the chip has a number of features it is a it is a secure place for crypto
 to be done by the host operating system that where there is there is no danger at least
 for the crypto operation itself of that being intercepted and abused in any fashion but it
 also has a number of other things there there's something called hardware platform attestation
 that is attesting to the hardware the hardware has you know like any hardware has a whole
 bunch of settings in the BIOS you've got hard drives with serial numbers you've got a bunch
 of things about the platform at any given time it's possible for you to and then the chip
 has this technology to to take a snapshot of the hardware platform and the chip will
 then and it's it will hash that in down into a hundred and sixty bit represent hash representation
 of the current hardware platform settings and you're able then if you wish to and again
 all this is under software control but you're able to to have the have the TPM chip attest
 to the state of the hardware and essentially certify that that no changes have been made
 from now compared to the time that this hash was generated so so that you're able to say
 the hard drive hasn't changed settings haven't changed you know whatever characteristics
 of the platform you want to be attestable this will verify that and there it is able
 you're also able to do the same sort of thing during the OS boot process and for example
 the Linux to implementation of this has that now so that so that Linux is able to interact
 with this hardware during the boot process and and essentially generate a series of hashes
 of the kernel as Linux boots so that you can absolutely verify that no change has been
 made to any of the Linux modules from the time that the the snapshot was taken so it
 gives you a means of of booting into a secure known state that prevents oh it's way cool
 yeah yeah it sounds like a really great idea and the security or the issues that people
 are coming up with were more about things and I think it was maybe more palladium implementation
 of it that but things like revoking documents or revoking emails after they'd already been
 mailed but that's well that's not part of TPM per se well and that's a perfect a perfect
 segue into my in my noting that yes people have been concerned that for example it could
 be used to give you better DRM you know digital rights management something more serious for
 software to lock on to crackable well well except that and and here's the point it there
 is no protection from the user the protection is from militia software okay that's the key
 you're you're in it the TPM specification does not try to protect itself from the user from
 the owner from someone having physical presence it's designed to protect from malicious software
 and so it's it's really not enhanced DRM because you know you could reset your TPM chip and
 say okay look now I need to reauthorize myself I mean so it's so it's it's not that and several
 of the several of the people that defend the spec make the point of saying look you know
 all this is is better security sure you can use better security for pro user or anti-user
 right right benefit but it's not it's not the security fault inherent in the security
 all precisely right in the same way that the internet you know the internet is not bad
 just because bad things can happen with it it's just it's just a capability so and what
 I like about TPM is that it it moves the sensitive operations out of software where they're
 fundamentally open to compromise now certainly you still need a secure interface to TPM and
 there are there are some scenarios where in fact in order to make changes the OS has to
 lose control that is it you have to go through a full hardware reboot that takes you back
 into the BIOS where you're back in control of a limited environment where you've got
 much better guarantee of of a secure path between the keyboard and display and the TPM
 in order to do some things and then you go back into the operating system so I mean there
 are scenarios that will be developed in the future where where things that were not used
 to being done now will be done with TPM because you know the hardware platform support provides
 it and I just think of it as an overall good thing I once I understood what it was I enabled
 it on my platforms and as you know for example I'm using a a fingerprint swipe on my on my
 think pad which unlocks both the BIOS and unlocks my password protected hard drive so
 that you know and all of that is stored in the TPM chip you can mean the I should mention
 a little bit more about the non-volatile memory side it's able to store yours you know
 the the keys and certificates and other data that you would like stored in a way that nothing
 can get to it the problem if you store this stuff on a hard disk is that it's there on
 the hard disk but if you store your passwords and your certificates in this non-volatile
 memory and you lock it so that it requires a boot time power on time unlock then there
 isn't any way for this to get compromised it won't let that stuff out until you've provided
 it with something that hashes down to the same value it's got stored in this single chip
 and nothing comes out of its pins until you said it's me I need access to this stuff so
 I mean it's like a very secure hard word enforced crypto vault that is is part of the
 hardware and you know we when we've talked about multi factor authentication we've talked
 about how single factor username passwords you know something you know is not safe that
 really something you have would be nice to have added well TPM provides very carefully
 designed second factor authentication of something you have you have the laptop you
 have the cell phone or PDA or whatever the the TPM chip has been installed in so a week
 password would still have the same consequence if somebody stole your laptop though right
 yes again if there's no there's there's no way to prevent against that except that the
 TPM also in the spec at least in one point to the most recent version they've got dictionary
 attack prevention so it shut it's it will shut itself down if it sees you if sees someone
 trying to guess your password it will first lengthen the response time and then lock out
 TPM is from Intel and Microsoft or who was involved in 120 different companies are involved
 in this I mean virtually it's a who's who it's a it's from the the TCG is the trusted
 computing group which is an unaffiliated independent alliance of of more than a hundred companies
 that have gotten together and said we want an open spec an open platform for you know
 an agreeing on what the functionality should be when we create a you know what Microsoft
 calls SCP this secure crypto processor well I'm really glad this wasn't done and specked
 by Microsoft it was done independently and for example yes Intel Intel's newer chip sets
 have TPM all the TPM functionality built right into them but many other people make
 TPM microcontrollers so there's it's so open that even other hardware platform other hardware
 manufacturers are involved in it oh it's yeah exactly it's multi-platform and and and and
 an evolving complete open spec all the PDFs are there I think it's at TCP.org the trusted
 computing group.org has all this so I mean this is our foundation for moving crypto on
 to hardware and being able to securely store stuff we really want to be kept safe in a
 way that that you know that nothing nothing that happens no kind of system subversion
 is able to get there because it's implemented in hardware and you're using this in your
 T60 yes great and it hasn't hindered you in any way and it's worked reliably and of
 course I just like knowing it's there yeah I love it really yeah I love that you know
 when I swipe my fingerprint my my the characteristics are found they're hash down they're they're
 given to the TPM chip it compares them with the various fingerprints because I've got
 two fingers from each hand which is actually a good thing because I've got a band-aid on
 my on my right floor figure right now and I realized wait a minute I can't I can't log
 in it's like oh wait a minute I did my left hand too so yeah the close thing and and how
 many manufacturers I mean you can get so you can get it on your Lenovo our Dell I think
 is offering some machines with it yes and Dell is definitely in the part of it trust
 the computing group yes so so you shouldn't probably look around especially if you're
 getting a laptop this is really important and look for one that has TPM enabled yes I
 think for for portable computing it offers you know the potential for really good security
 and I can I can foresee the day where where PDAs and cell phones will have a little fingerprint
 swipe sensor and that'll go right into a little TPM chip on the you know integrated into the
 electronics to say yes this is me who has this device that's Nate that's Nate well
 there you go that's it TPM and I want to thank the folks at NOS for supporting this discussion
 on TPM I'm talking about nerds on site this podcast brought to you as always by nerds
 on site I want to be a nerd.com is the website they're growing they need more nerds they're
 looking for somebody just like you if you are a PC or a Mac expert especially for the kind
 of guy who tears down your computer and rebuilds it in your spare time if you know Cisco if
 you know Cisco and if you know Oracle if you I mean pretty much anything security antivirus
 even sales even trainers project managers programmers website program designers fix it
 guys if you're a nerd a nerd on site that is you're an independent contractor so you're
 in business for yourself but you're not by yourself they really help you with the business
 side of it you focus on what you love not the burdens of running that business and it's
 not just the US it's all over the world Canada Mexico of England Australia South Africa and
 Bolivia too in fact I think there's a few more countries to add to that list nerds on
 site the University of Nerdology has great classes and systems architecture design software
 development full on source IT departments to desktop support all the stuff you'd like
 to know if you're a nerd and you love working with people here's what you do you go to I
 want to be a nerd calm and register for a nerds only meeting in your area today I want
 to be a nerd calm nerds on site they're picking me up in the nerd mobile and when I go to
 Vancouver next week you took them up on their offer to be your chauffeur very cool I said
 do I have to write in the nerd mobile they said when we were hoping you'd want to and
 I said of course I do they're all going to have their cameras out you know it's going
 to be fun I can't all right it'll be a lot of fun I think unfortunately the one of the
 guys that you met with is it Gary Redkop can't do it so oh yeah it's gonna be out of town
 but David David that's right there the rest of them will be there so anyway we thank them
 for supporting this podcast we really appreciate it yeah all right let's see I think we've wrapped
 this up we're gonna do a question and answer session next week for our one hundredth episode
 yeah I apologize I didn't get balloons or streamers or anything never missed a week Leo that's
 pretty impressive because there's no other podcast that can make that claim not no other
 twit podcast and probably not many other podcasts either that's pretty impressive well good good
 job we'll celebrate next week I hope you'll join us I'm Leo LaPorte don't forget to go
 to Steve's site by the way grc.com that's where you can get 16 kilobits versions of this
 show the the low bandwidth versions you can also get transcripts and all the show notes
 and participate in his great security forums that's grc.com it's also where you'll get
 spin right the world's best the one they're all copying the finest disk maintenance and
 recovery utility in the world spin right grc.com also great free security programs and shields
 up all that stuff see we'll see you next week look forward to it Leo
