 This is Twit!
 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by AOL Radio at AOL.com/podcasting.
 This is Security Now with Steve Gibson, Episode 94 for May 31st, 2007, the fourth factor.
 Security Now is brought to you by Astarro, makers of the Astarro Security Gateway on the
 web at www.ASTARO.com.
 And by Nerds on Site, looking to grow your IT service business, find out how Nerds on
 Site can help visit, I want to be a nerd.com.
 It's time to talk security and our good friend Steve Gibson is here from his Security Now
 Labs in Irvine, California, home of my lair of security.
 Your lair, your secret cave, the bat cave, home of security now, and of course, you've
 been writing a secureable and shoot the messenger decabobulator, the famous 50 million strong
 shields up.
 Do you ever figure out why you got a bump in shields up lines with you?
 A day.
 Somebody's got to be plugging it.
 I guess it could be the radio show, but I wonder if maybe now a router is not saying
 or some security software is not saying "test us."
 I think that's probably exactly it.
 Someone with a serious following is saying "you shields up to go check things."
 What's really interesting is, as I said before, when I mentioned this, and I saw it again
 profoundly is this weekly cycle, and it does look like it's actually slower on the weekends
 and it's not the radio show in this case, and it's a substantial population of people
 who are now, it's a sharp peak, it's like they discovered it overnight, so I'm sure
 you're right.
 Somewhere, there's some high traffic site or facility which is saying "you shield up
 to test yourself," and it could even be this podcast because we've mentioned it from time
 to time, but we've been harping on it a lot because of the 50 million, it could even just
 be the attention this podcast, generally.
 You saw the chart.
 In fact, why don't you bring the chart up right now?
 Go to grc.com and go to shields up, and then click on that first entry button to get into
 where it sort of shows, it says greetings, and then you see that first chart.
 You see the first set of buttons, and then scroll all the way down to the bottom of that
 to item number 12, which I think has labeled site history, and if you click that, you'll
 see I build a little...
 It's neat that you put that up.
 That's great.
 Yeah, I build a little dynamic chart that shows, but I mean it's overnight, I mean in one
 day...
 Yeah, it's very visible on this.
 It doubles.
 It's very consistent, too, and you can see there used to be a sine wave historically,
 which is our weekly, just the standard weekly cycle, and this isn't, so it's more pronounced
 now.
 That is to say the sine wave is a higher amplitude, but something happened in one day where suddenly
 and consistently now, the traffic doubled.
 Wow.
 It's very clear.
 Yeah, when you look at that, you know that something happened.
 Yeah.
 In a way, 50,597,626 shields tested and counting, by the time I read it, it's much, much higher.
 We want to, before we get into our subject, today we're going to kind of do a follow-up
 on our three-factor authentication discussion.
 Yeah, actually, I think of it more broadly than that, Leo.
 My feeling is that authentication is going to become nothing more than increasingly important
 in the future.
 I mean, as, you know, as online banking happens, as our identities are, as it's more important
 for people's daily lives, that they be able to prove over the internet that they are who
 they say they are.
 I mean, the applications are expanding, and as that happens, it becomes increasingly
 important to be able to prove you are who you say you are, and for someone you're proving
 it to, to be able to trust that proof.
 So I want to talk, I want to expand on and talk some more about some specific issues
 of authentication, but this is more than, you know, we certainly open the topic broadly
 when we, four weeks ago, talked about multi-factor authentication.
 Of course, we started off the series 94 weeks ago talking about passwords, which is sort
 of classic, you know, the classic easiest and most familiar form of authentication.
 So I think our listeners should assume that authentication is going to be an ongoing sort
 of topic thread for us, probably for this foreseeable future.
 It's critical.
 It's a critical subject.
 Well, we'll get to this and Steve has discovered a fourth factor.
 So it's exciting.
 So fourth.
 That's what I'm going to call this one.
 But meanwhile, I want to remind everyone that nerds on site is our sponsor, and we love
 them.
 And we want to remind you that if you're interested in getting involved in the IT business, or
 maybe you're already in the IT business, and you'd like to focus more on your business
 or your passion, unless on the burdens of running a business that nerds on site is there
 for you, they basically they support people who want to work in technology.
 You can find out more at Iwanttobeanerd.com, whether you're a PC or a Mac expert, even
 Cisco oracle experts, fix it technicians, website designers.
 There are programmers involved, project managers, even people in sales, trainers, of course,
 security experts, 80 virus gurus and more see the deal is you remain an independent contractor,
 but nerds on site supports you, so you can focus on what you want to do, not the nitty
 gritty details of business.
 They operate in seven countries, actually, I think it's more now, Canada, USA, Mexico,
 England, Australia, South Africa and Bolivia.
 And they even have a University of Nerdology, where you can enhance your skills and systems
 architecture designer software development or full on source IT departments, desktop support,
 so-ho residential IT services, that kind of thing.
 Want to know more?
 I want to be a nerd.com.
 Right now, you can register for a nerds only meeting in your area today.
 They're great people, and we're really thanking for helping us out on security now.
 I want to be a nerd on one word.com nerds on site, thank you for supporting security now.
 So I know that this is working for them, by the way, believe it or not, I received a video
 testimonial from a security now listener who found out about the nerds through security
 now and has signed up and is a happy new nerd guy.
 I love that.
 That sounds very cool.
 You have a happy new nerd guy.
 We don't call them that, but okay, no, actually, maybe we do, maybe not to their faces.
 We also want to mention the spin right, of course, because that's Steve's bread and butter.
 It's what keeps us afloat.
 Keep Steve afloat anyway, doesn't help me at all, but it helps you indirectly.
 It helps me because I wouldn't have Steve if I didn't have it.
 You know, last week, I read a testimonial where someone talked about how he ran spin
 right on a friends of his machine at level two, which took only a couple hours.
 But the problem still existed afterwards.
 And so then he ran it at level five and went, you know, and then like left and then I think
 he was flying somewhere.
 I'm getting my testimonials a little bit mixed up.
 But I remember that he checked back with his friend, you know, a couple of days later
 to say, hey, you know, when spin right finished, how are things afterwards?
 And the friend said, everything's perfect.
 It's cured.
 And I meant then, but I got sidetracked and, you know, we went off on our discussion.
 I meant then to sort of explain a little bit about these levels because the level two
 of spin right is a read only pass.
 So it has the virtue of being faster.
 That is the idea is it scans the entire drive every single sector as fast as it can, only
 reading the sectors and but but doing so much differently than if the computer were reading
 the sectors where there's all kinds of fault tolerance that's added in and retries.
 So for example, spin rights, trying to find problems, but it's only doing so by reading.
 So it shuts down drive retries, it shuts down error correction and shuts down many
 of the normal procedures which tend to mask errors because it's actually looking for problems
 on the on the drive.
 But even so, well, and the advantage of doing a read only passes is it's substantially faster
 than than the deeper level passes.
 When you do a level five test, spin right, reads the initial data, then inverts all the
 bits, all the zeros to ones, ones to zeros, writes them back, then reads that back and
 then re-inverts them and writes them back, then reads that back and compares it to the
 original.
 So it's literally it's it's flipping every bit on the entire drive.
 That's why it takes so twice exactly well.
 And so it takes, you know, you can imagine we're doing five times more work reading,
 writing, reading, writing and reading.
 And so it's substantially longer.
 But because we're we're actually well, essentially making sure that every single bit position
 on the drive can hold both a one and a zero.
 We will tend to find things that a simple read pass won't.
 So so that I wanted to clarify why it was that in that testimonial, I shared with our
 listeners last week this the past two in that case, let the the the use of level two didn't
 solve the problem, which level five did, because it was much more active and probably found
 a it's possible to have an error on the drive, such that the sector can be read with one set
 of data, but not with another, which is why I actually do this data inversion scan to
 really, you know, basically really exercise every bit position on the drive.
 Do you find that it is able to recover sectors very often or more often does it just map
 it out?
 Well, the good news is all contemporary drives are mapping sectors dynamically when you let
 them.
 So that's one of the other things spin right does is it suppresses this automatic relocation
 technology while it's in use until, for example, it's satisfied with the data that it's recovered
 from the sector, then it says, okay, drive, give me a new physical sector in this location,
 and it's into that newly relocated sector that spin right puts the data back that it
 is recovered.
 Yeah.
 So it's, I mean, it's really healing the drives as actually you've experienced that
 yourself.
 Yeah.
 In fact, I have a new drive to test out on it.
 My iPod died and I'm almost positive.
 It's the, it's the drive, not the, uh, not the, uh, uh, battery or in fact, I know it's
 not the battery.
 It's holding a charge.
 It's definitely the drive.
 Well, and we as a matter of fact, I know that spin right can fix iPod drives.
 We've had a bunch of people that are written in saying, Hey, you know, I, all my music's
 back.
 Right.
 Right.
 Good.
 But now I have to find, you know, get the adapter and everything because it has to be
 internal on a PC to fix it.
 So correct.
 Yeah.
 Correct.
 You need, you need to take a little, the little, is it the 1.8 inch drive and the iPod,
 I think it must be the really, really small.
 It's not, you know, I thought it would be the two and a half.
 It's not a two and a half.
 It's not the micro drive.
 I guess it is a 1.8 inch.
 It's, it looks like a PC card about.
 Yep.
 In fact, it's funny because we've had people that have, there's a 1.8 inch to 2.5 adapter
 and a 2.5 to regular IDE, three and a half inch adapter and people have daisy changed
 them.
 Yep.
 You know, in order to fix their iPods.
 That's why I'm all made down.
 Using spin right.
 Yep.
 That's, that's a project for another day though.
 I, you know, it's one of those things where I thought, I can't live without my iPod and
 I ended up buying it.
 And Leo, it's why I've never had one with a, actually I do have, I do have them now,
 but I just love the solid state iPods there.
 They're never going to go bad.
 Yeah.
 That's just the robust techno.
 But I also like having a lot of capacity.
 Yes.
 I'm sure you do.
 There you go.
 All right.
 It's time to talk about, and I love this law fourth factor.
 Yep.
 So first of all, when you say authentication, just so to make this clear, what do you mean
 when you say authentication?
 Well, it's about proving that you are who you say you are, authenticating that you are
 you, you, and doing so to somebody remotely.
 I mean, that's where the challenge comes in.
 Remember that when we talked four weeks ago about, about multi factor authentication,
 we started off talking, for example, in the olden days, I think we used some examples
 from characters from Andy of Mayberry, where Opie would go into the drugstore and he could
 be allowed to pick up Ant B's medication because the drugist knew him.
 Right.
 And so he knew it was Opie coming into the store and that Opie was trustworthy and would
 go straight home and take Ant B her pills.
 And so four weeks ago, we talked about the three factors of authentication being something
 you know, meaning, for example, like a password, something you had only, you know, it's, it's
 private to you.
 Good point.
 And in fact, we drew the distinction then that we're talking about discriminating.
 That is something you know that no one else knows, meaning that that factor can be used
 to discriminate you from anybody else, given that you've kept this information to yourself.
 And that's exactly what a password does.
 I mean, it tells the website or your software that's you and nobody else.
 Right.
 And then of course, the something you have is a physical token of some sort.
 And of course, the popular one that a lot of our listeners, I was surprised how many
 people wrote in and said, Hey, we're using secure ID, which is an RSA token, which, which
 we've talked about now several times, it displays a periodically changing multi digit
 number in a little LCD screen.
 And so it's the kind of thing you have on your key chain, and it's always showing some
 number.
 And every minute it goes to a next one.
 And then by, by hooking that in to an RSA server, the server knows the, the, the seed
 that your toe, your particular token is set with.
 And so it's able to determine what number you're seeing.
 So it is able to verify that, well, somebody has your token and we're hoping it's you.
 And so, so it's funny because a number of our listeners who wrote in said, Hey, not
 only do we have to give them that token number, we also have a pin or a password.
 Apparently that that's software configurable.
 Some companies use pins, you know, pins short, short numeric pins.
 Others allow employees to use regular passwords of some length.
 So that would be dual factor.
 So it's something you know and something you have.
 Exactly.
 And that solves the problem of your token getting away from you and it being used for
 some mischief.
 So it's not a mess.
 It does with an ATM card.
 Exactly.
 Exactly.
 And in fact, there, there's another much more common example of, of two factor authentication.
 Now the, the ATM card has the limitation that you have to be at an ATM machine.
 And that's why this RSA token is cool because since it's an LCD display and you're able,
 you're entering the data on a screen on a website, you're able to get hardware token
 to factor authentication that way.
 Whereas the only way to do that, for example, on a PC format would be if you had a mag stripe
 reader hooked to your PC, then you'd use your ATM card to know to do a card swipe.
 And there are that smart cards to log on the machines, like power log on that do exactly
 that.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 And then finally, the third factor is something you are, which gets us into another large
 topic that we're going to be spending some time on in the future because I just, I think
 it's fascinating and also really interesting.
 And that is, you know, things like the whole idea of biometrics that is something bio that
 is about you and metric that is to say that can be measured.
 And so there's retinism, irises and, you know, excuse me, I hand geometry measurements and
 of course, very common as fingerprints, that's, it's funny, Leo, I've been using now for
 several weeks, a, a fingerprint scanner on my IBM ThinkPad and I really like it.
 It, it has support in the BIOS and it uses the TPM, the trusted platform module built
 into the ThinkPad, which is another topic we're going to be talking about in the future
 because it's been controversial in the past due to the possibility of it's being abused.
 But I really like the idea that my hard drive is, is locked so that no one can eat who even
 took the drive out of the laptop would be able to read it until I swipe my finger as
 them as the laptop boots up and the BIOS in the interaction between the processor in
 the fingerprint scanner and the BIOS authenticate me in a truly secure fashion using the trusted
 platform module that's built onto the motherboard of the laptop, only if that succeeds, will
 it then dynamically unlock my drive as I boot to allow there to be any chance of to boot
 an OS and then Windows comes up knowing that it's me that has turned this laptop on.
 So you know, it's a really nice solution.
 If I were more concerned, I could go for two factor authentication and have to provide
 a password and my fingerprint.
 But I'm, I'm, I'm careful about my laptop and I'm not crazy here.
 Blah, blah, blah.
 Exactly.
 Yeah.
 Exactly.
 Great.
 All right.
 Now that we know what authentication is and we've got the three different factors you've
 discovered a fourth factor.
 Well, yes, during the research I was doing four weeks ago, I stumbled across something
 that that just caught my eye and, you know, grab some references to it and I spent some
 time thinking about it more.
 And that is the fourth factor turns out to be sort of a return to the past.
 But for example, in this RSA research paper, these guys have put some science to it.
 The fourth factor is someone you know.
 So of course, that's the, the pharmacist and OP example.
 That is the pharmacist trusted OP because he knows him.
 Right.
 Now, in an electronic mode, of course, how do you prove that you're someone you know?
 That is the idea being we're still talking about trans internet authentication.
 Well, in the RSA research paper, they're of course a little RSA centric.
 We can't fault them for that now.
 So they talk about a model for the fourth factor involving their secure ID token where
 the way this would work is imagine that that Sally, we'll just make up a Sally, has lost
 her token, but needs to authenticate herself in her corporate environment.
 So there is a, there's a formal structure to allow someone Sally knows who has not lost
 their token to extend the authentication through his trust and his knowledge of Sally.
 So what happens is, you know, Sally calls Bob and says, Bob, I'm, I've done it again.
 I'm sorry.
 I'm so ditzy this morning.
 I left my secure ID token at home.
 I need you to authenticate me.
 Oh, oh.
 So that's well, I think a spy would do.
 Well, now that's a very good point.
 And this is one of the weaknesses that this RSA security paper, and I will have a link
 to it in our show notes.
 So, so people can dig down into this if they're interested.
 It's one of the weaknesses that these guys not only qualify, but quantify in terms of,
 you know, how does this weaken the system?
 Because they, they, they, they talk about, for example, if Sally sent Bob email to say
 I left my secure ID at home, you know, that's obviously very weak form of someone you know,
 his email is so easily spoofable.
 And so, you know, they design a system where in a, in a drop down list box, you, in order
 to, in order for Bob to authenticate Sally to the, to his corporate network infrastructure,
 for example, there's a drop down list box where there's a number of choices of how Bob
 knows this is Sally, and it says, um, talk to her it or, you know, met her face to face.
 She called me on the phone.
 She sent me email or, you know, a number of other things.
 And so the idea being that even things that might be disallowed are listed there so that
 Bob doesn't lie.
 So, so that Bob is encouraged to say, Oh, she sent me email.
 Well then when he tries to submit this, exactly, sorry, Bob, uh, that's not okay.
 Tell Sally she's going to have to do better than that.
 She has to, you know, prove herself.
 And so what, what they've tried to do is because it's obviously about human factors and is,
 and anything like this is prone to social engineering attacks, they've tried to, to give Bob the
 opportunity to tell the truth about why he believes this is Sally so that he won't just
 say, ah, it's probably Sally.
 And, and, and now the other good thing is that, so, so, okay, just to close this loop.
 So, so Bob believing this is Sally, he, um, the, the way this works is Sally has said
 to the system first, I don't have my token, um, give me a one use password that I can
 use in order to get myself authenticated.
 So the system gives her some, some sort of a, you know, a, a token of some sort.
 She then provides that to Bob and says, Bob, I left my, my token at home.
 Could you get me on the network, please?
 Can you authenticate me?
 Bob says, well, this really does sound like you, Sally.
 Um, so yes, you know, he has some, some credible reason to believe this is she.
 So he goes to the system and says, hi, this is Bob and I've got my secure ID.
 So he goes through the normal protocol of authenticating himself to the system so that
 the system knows this is him.
 And he says, here is the token that you gave Sally a couple of seconds ago, which she needs
 to use to authenticate.
 So he provides that to the system.
 The system says, okay, this is what we gave to Sally a minute ago.
 We know your Bob, you've proven that to us.
 So here is the matching, you know, like magic token that, that you are to give to Sally to
 prove that, that, that you're who you say you are and you're known to the system.
 So, so, so the system gives something back to Bob, that this matching token, which he
 then gives to Sally and Sally then provides to the system.
 So what this does is this, this securely and in a one time only use, so it creates a series
 of chains where the only thing you really need to depend upon is that Bob and Sally
 are in agreement that they know each other or more specifically that Bob is sure this
 is Sally who has made the request.
 And so Sally in returning this token that she received from Bob verifies that she's had
 this dialogue with him.
 The system verifies that this matches the temporary token it initially gave to her.
 And the only way that can happen is if if she's been been the recipient and this thing
 has flowed through Bob to the system back and then back through Bob to her.
 So I mean, it sounds confusing in practice.
 It's not very difficult.
 Is this the web of trust that they talk about?
 Well, no, that's we're going to get to that in a second.
 Okay.
 And I expect you have much more experience with that, Leo, than I do because you have
 been for many, many years a PGP user.
 Right.
 Right.
 So, so this is not a web of trust.
 This is a a sort of a fallback solution for what happens in or to a solution to the problem
 of the strength of a two factor system losing its strongest factor, meaning, you know, the
 something I have, unfortunately, I left it at home.
 So how do I authenticate myself in a in an online fashion in a in a secure fashion in
 the absence of one of these tokens and the idea being that, you know, if the if the players
 play by the rules, and of course, that's the weakness in this is again, we are talking
 about the human factors side, but but any system like this that is strong needs to have
 some sort of, well, and to be practical needs to have some sort of fallback methodology.
 You know, the classic example is when we use passwords to authenticate ourselves on sites,
 then we're signing up with our account, they'll often say, okay, well, to give us some personal
 information about yourself, what was the, you know, your favorite teacher in high school,
 your, you know, your first pet's name, where, you know, what city were you born in?
 And of course, those questions are used exactly in this fashion as sort of fallback password
 recovery options there, the problem there is that the weakness of that is those can often
 be determined through data mining.
 For example, it's possible to find somebody's mother's maiden name on the internet through
 data mining.
 And unfortunately, you know, mother's maiden name is the classic fallback authentication,
 you know, recovery approach.
 Right.
 And everybody knows this.
 It's terminally weak.
 Yeah.
 I mean, it's really.
 First of all, it's easy to find somebody's mother's maiden name.
 And the, and the other problem with that is it's inherently static.
 Everyone has one mother and she had one maiden name and, and it's not changing the, the nice
 thing about the model that the RSA guys came up with as a, as a fallback solution for the,
 the, the temporary loss of a token is it, it does use one time only identifiers.
 So there, it's not subject to any kind of a replay attack that is as not possible for
 someone else to use the token they got from Bob or that Sally wrote down on a pad of paper
 or something.
 Right.
 And, and use it as a single factor authenticator to the network.
 Right.
 So, so it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a cool system.
 And it demonstrates again, a way that it's possible to use someone you know who is essentially
 vouching for you, the, the point I was going to make also is that, is that Bob knows he's
 on the hook for having, having authenticated Sally.
 So you know, given that logs are being made and logs are always made in, in these sorts
 of, of secure authentication scenarios, there's a log entry that says Sally was authenticated
 through Bob at this time.
 So if it turns out that Sally has done something wrong to the system or turns out this wasn't
 Sally, Bob knows he's responsible to the powers that be, you know, basically of, of
 providing the credentials, the, the temporary credentials that this person who claimed to
 be Sally, um, uh, was.
 Yeah.
 Had.
 It had, it did, but, uh, whatever in their verb, we'll just put exactly your verb here.
 Now the web of trust is, is a, it's sort of a, is a long standing variation on this.
 Right.
 The, the idea we've talked about, about the, the public key infrastructure or PKI in the
 past.
 And we've discussed it extensively as regards the signing of security certificates.
 You know, GRC, my web server, um, supports a secure sockets connection and SSL secure
 sockets layer connection.
 And we enforce that at any time during the, for example, our customer's use of the e-commerce
 system for, for purchasing spin right.
 My certificate is signed by vera sign that is a trusted authority and that signs many
 people certificates.
 So the idea being that the browser trusts vera sign to do, it's due diligence in verifying
 that anyone applying for a certificate for Gibson research corporation really is me, essentially,
 you know, chief honcho at Gibson research corporation.
 And I do have to go through a bunch of hoops, you know, verifying phone numbers and addresses
 and and done in Bradstreet listings and that kind of stuff in order to, to get my certificate
 every couple of years, what I need to renew it.
 So, so there the idea is we have a, a central, a central certificate signing authority, a
 certificate authority that, that sign certificates.
 And so our trust of them is extended through their signing action to the certificate.
 Well, Paul's, that's not Paul's, and I'm blanking on his name, Philip, Philip, Phil's
 over me.
 I knew it was a P. Yeah.
 Phil, yeah.
 Phil, Phil Zimmerman, when he created PGP, he wanted to create a public key infrastructure,
 but he did not want to tie it to a similar sort of central signing authority.
 So, so his idea was to create a so-called web of trust.
 The idea being that you could have people sign each other's public keys, their PGP keys.
 And thereby in doing so, saying, I assert that this person is who he is.
 And so, and then the idea being that in the ideal case, for example, I may not know, well,
 that we'll go, we'll stay with Sally and Bob, Sally may not know Bob, but, but Sally
 knows Jeff and Jeff knows Bob.
 Right.
 And as it happens, Jeff has signed Bob's key, his PGP key, and, and Sally has signed
 Jeff's.
 So there is a, there is a three person chain involving two signatures that created this
 three node chain.
 And so, so the idea being that if Sally trusts Fred because she knows him and, and, and she,
 and Fred is asserting by having signed Bob's PGP key that he knows him, she can be very
 sure that, that she has the key that Bob is asserting.
 Right.
 And so, Bob and Carol and Ted and Alice.
 Exactly.
 Now, the problem, of course, with this is as the chain gets longer, again, we're, we're,
 we're still basically in a social engineering mode, that is, as is always a case in any
 authentication scenario, the, the, the trust that you can have in the authentication provided
 is only as secure as the weakest link.
 So, so if you did extend the trust really much further beyond this two link example, you
 know, suddenly you're probably trusting somebody you don't know.
 Yeah.
 So, so you don't really have personal verification.
 See, in, in the, in the simple two link model, Sally does know Fred.
 And so she knows how trustworthy he is.
 And she knows he would not assert that he knows Bob unless he really did.
 Unfortunately, we live now in such a fast-paced world that, especially with PGP, you, you
 don't know everybody personally directly.
 Right.
 Well, and you certainly not, not only do not know everybody personally, but you certainly
 don't, you aren't just so-called two degrees of separation.
 Many, many more.
 Exactly.
 Yeah.
 In theory, of course, I think studies have been done, and when, in fact, we talked about
 it at some point during our 94 episodes, this notion of six degrees of separation studies
 have been done that show that in most social, I mean, real world social networks, any two
 people on the planet are connected by only six links.
 There's six degrees of separation between any two people in general, you know, on average.
 So, so the, the, the beautiful concept of this notion of a web of trust would be that
 if, if PGP were pervasive enough and everybody got keys and signed them and had everybody
 that they communicate with signed their key and they signed theirs, that you would end
 up with a very useful and robust web of trust.
 Now again, trust is the key because every link in that web needs to be a trustworthy
 way, a trustworthy link and, and to be, to be worthy of the parties trusting each other.
 If that's the case, then you really are asserting through a, well, technically any distance,
 any number of links, obviously, if every single link is something you can count on, then even
 though you might be 10 steps away from someone else, you're if every one of those links is
 trustworthy, then, you know, you can be absolutely sure to the, to the degree of the least trustworthy
 link that 10 steps away, this is really somebody who is asserting that they are who they are.
 One way they, I think in the early days, of course, I mean, there's some obvious problems
 with this and for instance, my keys are signed by hundreds of people, probably none of whom
 really know that that's my key because they got an email from me or they saw that key and
 they assume that that was emails from me and they signed it and I've done the same for
 others.
 But really, in the old days, you might actually, in fact, I think they still do key signing
 parties.
 You might actually physically meet up.
 I was just going to say that.
 Yes.
 That solves that problem. Yes.
 Many times you'll have SIGs, you know, special interest groups in computer clubs and they'll
 get together and they'll show each other their driver's license to say, look, this is really
 me.
 See, this is my photo and here's my name.
 I, you know, I want you to sign my key because essentially the more people who sign your key,
 the more valuable that is because there is integrity associated with it.
 So in there, you don't necessarily have a connected web between points, but you're able
 to get somebody's key and see how many people have said, this is really him.
 And so you say, okay, you know, what are the chances that all these people are wrong?
 And so there you actually possible if they're all befuddled and fooled, but yes, I mean,
 that's a very good point. It would be certainly possible for some, some bad guy to go around
 with a fake ID and use key sounding parties to get a ton of people agreeing with him that
 he's bad.
 I mean, that he is who he is when in fact he's not and then take advantage of this robust
 impersonation to do bad things.
 It's funny because an example of this sort of the same sort of social networking is what
 we see with eBay purchases being being verified by a chain of people you've bought things
 from before. I know that when I'm buying things on eBay, I always make a point of checking
 out somebody's reputation. So reputation systems are sort of a soft thing.
 Same idea, aren't they? Yeah, exactly. The same sort of thing.
 We've seen them fooled before. Yes. In fact, there are bot networks now that are designed
 to create spoofed reputation of bad guys on eBay. They sign each other's certificates
 in effect.
 Essentially do that exactly. And so they create a fake internal web of trust, which unfortunately
 is extended into the normal eBay web because they're able to create a deep and rich looking
 background of successful purchases of something of basically a penny each were the purchases.
 So not much money got spent. And that same penny probably went back and forth within
 this network of bots.
 Exactly. Well, so you could see the problems in here in this. It's not exactly a perfect
 form of authentication, but I guess for for PGP and the purpose of PGP, it's sufficient.
 Well, yeah. And I mean, it is exactly. It's not like you're going to rely on this. Absolutely.
 I mean, what you really want is to meet up with the people you care about, like you know,
 you and I, Leo, you and I get together physically in Vancouver. We should sign our keys. We sign
 each other's keys and it's game over. There's no way now that anyone could spoof you to
 me or or or me to you. And it would be sensible at that time to like look at a driver's license
 or some other, you know, form of authentication, maybe more than one to make sure that that's
 the case. I suppose that would be true if if you and I know, I mean, yeah, exactly. I mean,
 that way, we don't even need to meet up because you could say, okay, right now I'm going to
 send you an email with my key and it would just sign it. That would work too. That would
 work. You're right, because I was just trying to think whether any man in the middle attack
 could attack that. But no, because because I've signed my own key. So you could get my public,
 my public key and verify that that's my signature on my own key. And nobody else would be able
 to spoof that. Right. So you're right. You could be you could establish trust in that
 fashion. Cool. It is. And I found something that I'm excited about. I've got one on order.
 And I'm excited about it because it's cool. And it's cheap. I found a a it's like a $20
 US a one gig USB storage device with a built in fingerprint scanner. Oh, clever $20. Anyway,
 so I need to check it out and see how it works because they talk about how it only really
 works on Windows 2000 XP. It's like, Oh, okay, well, I'll tell you why we've actually shown
 that and demonstrate that on the lab. Okay. And it's because it's got software on it, right?
 It's a you I don't know if it's a you three same concept as a you three USB key, but it's
 the same it's the same concept, whether it's the same software, I don't know, but it automatically
 launches the authentication software and has to make. Yeah, it just has to run an XP or
 3000. There's no reason it couldn't run a VISTA. They just apparently haven't written
 it for a VISTA. Okay. What I was hoping was that this thing did this internally, which
 would have been so cool, you know, for it does have an internal encryption key, a unique
 internal encryption key. Right. So that so yeah, but yes, software running on the key,
 I guess not. Yeah. And in fact, no, I intended to spend some time talking about you three.
 The problem is I just it gives me a queasy feeling to stick a USB dongle in your system
 and have it launched software and should for there to be no means for me to override that.
 Right. In fact, we've seen that demonstrated. I've seen hacker attacks that involve putting
 on a you three USB key, a key keystroke logging software route, kidded, so forth. You plug
 it into a machine, the software checks to see if it's been installed yet. If it hasn't
 it installs itself, the hacker walks away. This happens within 30 seconds. Then comes
 back a week later. Same key checks as I've been installed. Let me download the database
 of logged passwords. Yep. So this is a very, very dangerous technology. And if you if you're
 using a machine in a library or internet cafe, I think you should assume it's been compromised
 in this way. It's probably the perfect example of the reason why that's too convenient. I
 mean, you know, we talk, we we talk often about about the trade off between convenience
 and security. And it's like, yeah, it's really convenient to plug this thing into a computer
 and really dangerous and have it launched. But oh my goodness, is it dangerous? Yeah.
 Well, you know, I, I guess I would hope there would be some way to disable that auto run
 in the in windows. But I'm not counting on there must be although, although in my looking
 at it, it creates a virtual CD drive and then another data drive. Okay, good. Because you
 can't turn off auto mounting CDs. Right. And in that case, and so that's the technology
 that it's using in order to make sense to take over. So yeah, very dangerous. Although
 I think to remove it, you need at least when it was in, I needed to use their removal software
 to remove it, which of course is the first thing I did is I get this thing. This is a bad idea.
 Get this off of this dongle. I want all my four gigs back. Anyway, that's right. So
 don't buy a U three key and disable it on all systems that you want to keep secure. And
 by the way, if you if you're a hacker, you can check out, I think it was a hack five.
 And Darren Kitchen told us how to do this. So I make total. Go to hack five, Darren, I'll
 tell you exactly what you need to know to make a bad, bad thing. Well, in the future,
 we will be, we will be covering various aspects of authentication. And you know, Leo, I've
 got to say, the more I think about this, this secure ID token idea, the more I like it. Yeah,
 I mean, I'm, I'm wishing, for example, that that there were a way to use the individual
 end users could, could get something like the secure ID token. And, and that there would
 be a service offered that websites could use to authenticate people. That is rather than
 using my, my, you know, my email address and a password, which just, it continually makes
 me feel uncomfortable because I'm, I'm, I'm using static information to authenticate myself.
 It's difficult not to reuse that on other websites. I mean, it takes tremendous discipline
 not to imagine if instead, you know, like all websites, well, that's not going to happen.
 But I mean, like a large number of websites, or maybe, you know, some trusted entity provided
 a service where websites could say, okay, you know, prove you are who you say you are.
 They get very much the way that this RSA model follows. They give you a token. You use some
 little app on your PC. Again, obviously you're on the internet already. You authenticate
 on the fly with some third party authentication service that would be, you know, use something
 like this kind of a time varying token. You provide that service with the token. The site
 you want to authenticate to is provided you the service, encrypts it or signs it or, you
 know, mutates it after authenticating you, you then provide you you just, you know, cut
 copy paste, you drop it back into the website and you've, so the website knows more securely
 that you are you than if, if you had given it your email and password because the website
 has no idea who's just done that and you're more secure because you've not had to give
 it anything that, that you've used anywhere else and it's never the same twice. It's one
 one use authentication. I just think it's very close to that. In fact, it may be somebody's
 already doing it and we just don't know about it. But you know, the open ID infrastructure
 could absolutely support that. And right now, most of the open ID providers I know of don't
 have a really good secure authentication system. You know, they just do it by email, but it
 would be great if somebody come along and did that because there is the infrastructure
 to use an open ID site as an authenticator. Right. And so the idea would be, you know,
 if a user didn't want super secure authentication, they wouldn't have to purchase a, you know,
 a hardware token, but I'd do it in a heartbeat in order. I mean, they're not that expensive
 in order to have the ability to log on to sites in a secure way that strongly authenticates
 me because of something I know and something I have. And even if the site, I mean, the beauty
 of using a third party is then not every single site has to support, you know, all of the
 infrastructure. Yeah, I'm sorry. Simply support the open ID infrastructure. And then we'd
 do it. I there's got to be an open ID provider that's doing this. And if not, there's a there's
 a really good business opportunity. I think so. I do it without question. Yeah, I would
 do it. Yeah. Um, let's mention, by the way, if you, if you listen to this podcast, you're
 probably concerned about security. If you listen to it a lot, you're probably terrified
 about security. And I want to remind you, there is a way to protect your enterprise,
 your business, absolutely securely. Thanks to the folks at a star or our sponsor, A S T
 A R O. They are the makers of the star security gateway based on a mix of best of breed open
 source and commercial software. It does everything. It's about the size of a router kind of configures
 like a router looks like a router, but does so much more. I mean, you get a transparent
 email encryption and decryption using PGP or S mine. You get remote access via VPN, including
 SSL VPN, which is the easiest to configure and use. You also get L2TP over IP sec, PPTP
 tunneling, IP sec. It's the only, in fact, UTM appliance in the marketplace with this,
 this incredible variety of VPN and remote access solutions. It scales well up to a 10
 star security gateways can be connected to do without any additional load balancing.
 It does it automatically. Just really great. It's a star O version seven A S T A R O dot
 com call 877 the number four star O to schedule a free trial in your business. 877 the number
 for a star. And if you're a non commercial user, you can get that home user license for
 the V seven package, which includes all subscriptions and a star up to date. So you get the antivirus
 anti spyware that you get the firewalling. Yet every all this goodness of the encryption,
 the intrusion protection for free for free. A S T A R O dot com business users call 877
 the number for a star. And we thank you so much for your support.
 This authentication stuff seems like it's, it's so important. And it almost in some way
 seems like it's in its infancy. And yet, of course, there's a lot of work been done.
 Right. I mean, the beauty is as we talked about many, many, many moons ago, crypto is
 mature enough. Now it is in the public domain. We know how to do crypto and crypto provides
 so many beautiful solutions. I mean, the idea that you can have a certificate that somebody
 can sign it and that that extends their credentials to your certificate, the idea that, you know,
 you're able to publish a public, a public key. And people can use that to encode and encrypt
 things that only you who have the matching private key can decrease.
 So I mean, it's just, it's just, yeah, there's beautiful building blocks. And, and I really
 believe, Leo, that, that downstream, I mean, I can't think of anything more, more mission
 critical than, than continuing to move forward, forward on, on secure authentication technology,
 being, you know, I mean, I can foresee the day when a huge number of people will have
 little tokens on their, on their literally on their key rings and just use them as, as
 part of, you know, going about their, their normal day might be how you get in their car
 for crying out loud. This is something I have. Yeah. Yeah. I think it's, I think it's just
 great. Well, thank you, Steve, fascinating subject. And there's, there's obviously room
 to talk more about it and we will, and we'll talk more about security in general. Every
 Thursday on this show, you can get a copy of the 16 kilobit version for those of you with
 dial up connections at Steve site, grc.com. That's also where he puts the transcriptions
 you can read along show notes and more. That's grc.com. It also fight, of course, shields
 up and all his free security software there and the great spin right, the ultimate disk
 maintenance and recovery utility. It's a must have for everyone's toolkit toolkit. That's
 grc.com. See you next week, Steve. Not all of you security now.
