 Coming up it's the best of 2023 or I guess in the case of security now it's
 the worst of 2023. Steve Gibson and I look back in just a moment on our best of
 episode. Podcasts you love. From people you trust. This is Detroit.
 This is security now with Steve Gibson episode 954 for December 26th, 2023.
 Our year's best. Hello everybody Leola Port here. Steve Gibson has the week off
 but we have Steve Gibson a lot of it. The best moments from 2023 although as I
 said in the case of security now sometimes the best moments are the worst
 moments. In this case I think it's a happy segment we're going to kick it off
 with. As you remember we spent a lot of time talking in 2022 and then again in
 2023 about the last pass hack. Steve finally had it and talked about his
 next password manager watch. During my post incident survey of security
 professionals three cloud-based password managers kept being mentioned over and
 over. They were Dashlane one password and Bitwarden. We all know that Bitwarden is
 an active sponsor of the Twit Network and a frequent advertiser on this podcast so
 I was glad to see other knowledgeable researchers praising it. Here's what
 Jeremy Gosney wrote once he had calmed down a bit from his being jilted from his
 being jilted by a last pass. I think that's what happened. He was upset. Yeah. Yeah.
 Clearly he said so why do I recommend Bitwarden and one password? It's quite
 simple he says. I personally know the people who architect one password and I
 can attest that not only are they extremely competent and very talented
 but they also actively engage with the password cracking community and have a
 deep deep he says again with asterisks desire to do everything in the most
 correct manner possible. Do they still get some things wrong? Sure but they
 strive for continuous improvement and sincerely care about security. Also their
 secret key feature ensures that if anyone does obtain a copy of your vault they
 simply cannot access it with a master password alone making it uncrackable.
 Next he says Bitwarden is 100% open source. I have not done a thorough code
 review but I have taken a fairly long glance at the code and I am mostly
 pleased with what I've seen. I'm less thrilled about it being written in a
 garbage collected language garbage collected language and there are some
 trade-offs that are made there, but overall Bitwarden and all you have to do
 is wipe any plain text you know I did that in squirrel as you know before you
 release memory you zero out the plain text and then you're fine. Anyway he
 says but overall Bitwarden is a solid product. I prefer Bitwarden's user
 experience and I've considered crowdfunding a formal audit of Bitwarden
 much in the way the open crypto audit project raised the funds to properly
 audit true crypt. The community would greatly benefit from this. Okay now I know
 from my Twitter feed that many of my Twitter followers or at least those who
 are tweeting to @SGGRC are using one password. I've not looked closely at it
 but from what Jeremy says that would appear to be a solid choice. Another
 password cracking enthusiast by the name of Steve Thomas ranks Dashlane first
 Bitwarden second and one password third but only because Dashlane is using his
 favorite pet password key derivation function known as Argon2. Argon2 is a
 memory hard function designed in 2015 which is highly resistant to GPU attacks.
 It won the hashing challenge as being the most secure. But its
 implementations need to be careful about side channel leaks. Oh interesting. Since
 the original design accesses memory in a password dependent sequence. Thus from
 you know you're able to defer something about the password from memory
 access patterns. As a consequence improvements have been made in Argon2
 since then but a password manager's choice of his key derivation function is
 incidental at most and the strength of any good function can simply be turned up
 as needed over time. So it appears that all three of these are in the running.
 Next I went to check out the personal plans these three offered.
 Blessedly I don't need a family plan or a business plan or anything other than a
 business plan. Just please keep all of my passwords safe secure and synchronized
 among all of my devices plan. Although the value of a password manager is now
 well proven so that asking for some money should not be a problem. I like the
 idea of being able to turn people onto it so that they can take it out for a
 spin without needing to pay in advance for a year's commitment. In other words
 free tier such as LastPass once had but then abandoned. You know that was part of
 my criteria in the beginning for LastPass. That went away too. So that's part of
 my criteria for the perfect password manager. Unfortunately Dashlane's free
 plan only now allows for the use of a single device. So you can't use it on
 both your desktop and even one mobile platform. That's crazy. Why allow any
 devices if you can't use at least two? So you need to pay at their minimum plan
 of $33 per year in advance which does then provide for an unlimited number of
 devices. One password doesn't even try to offer a free tier. If you want to use
 one password you pay $36 in advance for a year to use it. Bitwarden of the three
 is the only one to offer an actually useful free plan which allows for the
 use of any number of devices and Leo as you often note when you're talking about
 Bitwarden since their free plan actually really does everything you'll
 probably need their $10 per year paid plan at less than a third the price of
 the others is mostly just there to support them although you do get two
 factor authentication for that $10 per year. Oh that's worse. Yes and I would
 argue that for ten bucks come on. You know you usually see what my latte
 costs now. Incidentally I did ask when they started advertising I said because
 we've been burned by last pass frankly I said tell me about the free plan they
 said look we're open source it's always going to be free because otherwise people
 just fork it it's free free we have no that's not part of our business models to
 make money on the free plans so that's reassuring they're not going to do the
 pull a last pass and say I and I have to pay for it. Open source has a lot of
 benefits in this area I think. Well and as Jeremy noted the icing on the cake is
 that Bitwarden is also 100% open source. Yeah I saw a tweet pass by some time
 ago that our old friend Alex Nehouse was moving his family to Bitwarden and
 choosing to self-host a Bitwarden server is another cloud. Yeah and actually
 after this happened I kind of because for a long time I said well I'm never
 going to be able to protect it as well as professionals at let's say last pass
 whoops or Bitwarden or one password or Dashlane will but then there's the
 account argument which is it's a single point of attack that's where all the
 vaults are so if you self-host I put it on Dropbox it's encrypted they'd have to
 target me or stumble upon it somehow and even then they'd only get the encrypted
 blob that we've talked about that is well encrypted. Yep so I'm thinking about
 making myself hosted now. Well you know those are the sorts of things that they
 know that the use of a truly open password management can provide. Yeah
 yes and while it's not of interest to everyone I imagine that it's a sort of
 thing that would appeal to this podcast audience on December 7th Bitwarden
 posted a blog titled New Deployment Option for self-hosting Bitwarden. I've
 got a link to that in the show notes bottom of page 10 of the show notes for
 anyone who's interested in taking the path that Alex took and so you know that's
 something that is because it can be done and in my digging around over the
 holidays I stumbled upon a Bitwarden page which linked to their past annual
 third-party outside network security and application security penetration
 testing audits so they're auditing themselves having themselves audited by
 a number of different outside firms every year. I ended up not being able to find
 that same page later but I found another that provides the same info and it's
 under bitwardens.com/help/is-bitwarden-audited and so there are links
 there to everything and I also noted at the bottom of that page that they're
 signed up with Hacker One to offer and manage bug bounties against their
 platform. So the reason I originally chose LastPass and was comfortable
 endorsing it was that its author opened up its internals to me so that I could
 understand exactly how it worked and it was solely on that basis and for that
 reason that I chose it. I don't regret the decision I made back then. LastPass
 has been a flawless companion for me over the years. I say that knocking on
 wood somewhere because you know my vault has now been absconded with but as we've
 observed earlier on this podcast the world has been changing ever since and
 LastPass no longer fits the way it once did and you know it and its
 organization is beginning to act and feel a bit too old and creaky which is
 not what anyone wants in their password manager. An example of a different more
 aware and contemporary approach is Bitwarden's description of their
 management of their users master password. Bitwarden wrote, "SHA 256 is used to
 derive the encryption key from your master password. Bitwarden salts and
 hashes your master password with your email address locally before transmission
 to our servers. Once a Bitwarden server receives the
 Hashed password it is salted again with a cryptographically secure random value
 Hashed again and stored in our database. The default iteration count used with
 PBK DF2 is 100,001 iterations on the client. Client-side iteration count is
 configurable from your account settings and then an additional 100,000
 iterations when stored on our servers for a total of 201,000 iterations by
 default. Okay can I interrupt with a stupid question? What's with the 100,001 or the
 100,100? They don't like round numbers? That is a great question.
 Okay there's no technical, it's not like it's not like it's a power of two or
 something where it's gonna be some magic. I think it's prime. That wouldn't
 matter either anyway. Bitwarden is not only hashing 100,000
 times on our system and you can turn that to anything you want. By the way I
 would go with like 350,000. That's pretty much where you want to
 be at this point and then they're getting it, re-salting it, and then running it
 another 100,000 times on their high-speed machine because they can. Just you
 know because. So anyway, everybody knows what happened then. I went to bitwarden.com/twit.
 By the way, this is not a paid ad in any respect. No, I see everybody who's
 listening to this knows that I chose them because they're open-source. They
 have a useful free tier and they're as good as anybody else. Yeah, are you gonna
 self-host? You're certainly capable of doing that. It looks like you actually
 have to run a bitwarden server. You can't just have a bitwarden file. There is a
 third-party server that is widely agreed to be much faster. I think it's written
 in Go. So you could use you don't have to use it's open-source. Somebody else has
 written a server that's better than bitwardens. Nice. And most of the people
 who self-host that I know use that software, I'll find it for you. But you
 know, I don't self-host. I'm not gonna bother. No. No. I mean, I mean, again, the
 reason we did this in the beginning was that we had really strong local client
 site encryption and we were just using the provider to hold on to our data
 for us. Unfortunately, LastPass has just demonstrated so we can no longer trust
 them to do that. It's literally the worst thing that could happen to a pass. Well,
 except for not encrypting it right, but it's good. It's as bad as you get.
 Yes. Well, the reason we were all using the cloud is if your local
 encryption is solid, it doesn't matter if they lose control. Unfortunately, they
 both lost control and their local encryption was not being kept up to
 date. Okay, so I signed up for Bitwarden, started the $10 plan. Then I went to a
 menu item I had never used in my LastPass vault export. And I exported a 77 K by
 CVS file. I opened my shiny new Bitwarden web interface and under tools at the top
 was a menu item import data. From a drop down menu there, I selected the import
 source as being LastPass CSV, provided the file name of the of the file I'd
 exported from LastPass and watched a perfect error-free transfer of my
 entire legacy LastPass data into Bitwarden. My password database, auto-filled
 credit cards and all my secure notes made the move without incident or complaint.
 I have done this as well several years ago, but I did it. The only thing I would
 say is immediately securely erase the CSV file because it's in plain text, right?
 No, no, no. It isn't encrypted. It's still encrypted. Okay. No, it has to be
 encrypted. It has to be encrypted. Yeah, yes, yes. So in order to import, treat
 that carefully. Yes, I was briefly confused with the XML that we
 grabbed from LastPass. Yeah, no, but this is it. They have done encrypted. So it
 could be re-encrypted. Yeah. And in fact, I remember being very, I remember being
 very nervous about the fact that that file was on my system. Yeah, I have to leave
 it securely. The other thing, when I did the import, I had some very long and weird
 notes in LastPass. And a few of the very long note fields got munched on the
 import or maybe on the export. I'm not sure at what end, but you might check
 if you use secure notes to make sure everything got in. I remember that. I had
 some trouble with that. In fact, actually, I think the import didn't work because
 the word and said, well, I don't know, this is too long. I can't. Yeah. And I was
 wary of that, but I had no complaints or issues at all. Simon Zaraffa, who is a
 frequent contributor to the podcast, he said that the Android client, I put him
 off a little bit. Do you, but you certainly are an Android. Oh, no, no, it's fine. Look,
 I mean, I guess we should also say, and we talked about Tavis Armadee saying this,
 that the JavaScript stuff like the plugins for the browsers, perhaps the
 mobile clients for all these password managers, these are a little bit potentially
 problematic, especially if code got injected, malicious code got injected and so
 forth, right? Well, again, there is no guarantee being made for any of this over
 on the client side. That isn't something we have any control over. If something
 evil gets in your machine, you know, it can be logging your keystrokes. That's a
 good point. You type your master all bets are off. Some might say, Tavis did that
 it's better to use the binary as opposed to the JavaScript plugin on the browser,
 and last pass bitward and dash lane. And, and one password all offer a standalone
 app. I think in some cases, it's electron. So maybe that's not great. The other thing
 I would say is if you are in the minority and you only use Apple products, you Apple
 has a very good, I think, password manager that will do all the things a
 password manager will do. And it's all kept within the Apple ecosystem. It's it's
 little hard. You can use it on Windows and Android, but you have to have an
 Apple app to do that probably should be added to the list of potential candidates
 for people who are mostly Apple focused. I was going to say, yes, if you were a Mac
 user, then they would make certainly sense to stay there. And of course, I'm not I
 just I'm on I use them. It's nice. It has a very nice generator. It fills it in. And
 but I still I need bitwarden because I use Linux. You know, I use other stuff.
 And I need to cross platform one. And I, you know, as much as I love bitwarden
 and they are a sponsor, and it's what I use personally,
 I think you'd be fine with Dashlane or one password as well. I see no reason.
 Yes, as I as I said at the beginning or what we're talking about this, I see lots of tweets
 from our listeners who are one password users. Very happy. You know, even Jeremy when he's not,
 you know, frothing, thinks that one password is a good thing too.
 And I should mention, I think he probably did that bitwarden is a sponsor. We're both very happy
 bitwarden customers coming back. Good news. Chess is safe. Steve and I talked about
 it's kind of a favorite thing of mine. I play a lot of online chess at chess.com. It turns out
 there's a security story there as well. Steve discusses and I discuss the findings of checkpoint
 research. Is it possible to cheat? You think chess.com watch Leo? Yes. You'll be glad to know
 that chess is safe. I actually know a little bit about this, but I'd like to hear what the
 story is. So in their blog posting titled checkmate checkpoint research exposes security vulnerabilities
 on chess.com. They describe how they discovered reported and helped fix vulnerabilities in the
 popular chess.com platform. Now, for those who don't know, chess.com is the world leading platform
 for online chess games with over 100 million members and more than 17 million games played
 per day. I thought that ratio was interesting. 100 million members, 17 million games per day.
 So it functions as an internet chess server, a news website, and a social networking platform
 with a strong focus on community building, community based forums and blogs, which allow players to
 connect with each other, socialize, share thoughts and experiences, and learn from each other about
 playing chess. Chess.com also conducts global championships, which consists of prize money
 to the tune of a million dollars for the winner and the coveted chess.com global champion title.
 So checkpoint decided to take a close look into the functioning of chess.com because there had been
 some allegations of cheating in the past. What did they find? They found a number of ways that
 the communications with the site could be manipulated to cheat. They discovered that it was possible to
 win by decreasing the opponent's time and winning the game over time without the opponent noticing
 what had happened. They also discovered that it was possible to extract successful chess moves
 to solve online puzzle challenges and win puzzle ratings. To do this, they intercepted
 the communications between the client side, the player, and the server, the chess.com website.
 What they discovered was that the server was accidentally sending the correct solution to the
 puzzle. Oh, I could use that to the client side. Okay. And that allowed a cheating client to abuse
 and cheat on puzzle championships, in which the winner gets prize money by simply submitting the
 correct moves that the server was inadvertently providing. And also, it was possible to modify,
 in that case, also the elapsed time it took to consider the solution. And finally, they discovered
 that in communication between two friends on the platform, after approving the friend's request
 to connect, an attacker or somebody, you know, taking an attacker role is able to intercept the
 request with a proxy tool and succeed in both manipulating game timing, which allows a quick win,
 and in solving a puzzle, which raises his score and the value on the platform.
 So the good news is today, thanks to checkpoints work, the game of chess, as played at checks.com
 is safer and fairer than ever before. I like the err because in fact, most chess.com cheating.
 And most online cheating and chess has nothing to do with a hack has to do with me having my
 stockfish chess game running at the same time on my phone as I'm on chess.com and entering the moves
 in. And that, unfortunately, is not a hack. That's a little harder to fight. You see, it's fascinating
 to see how they fight it, because it is deep learning. Yeah, well, the way, so the way you do it is
 chess computers calculate the current balance of the game in centipons, a hundredth of a pawn,
 right? And among two human players, the lead change is much more variable in centipons,
 you know, might be a hundred or 200 centipons and then up and down and up and down. But when a machine
 plays, it's a fairly linear gain of centipons. You don't have the same variations. And so it is
 a little easier to spot a machine player because it doesn't make the same mistakes that humans do.
 Humans blunder. And so if a machine never blunders, and then there's other ways to tell it play lines
 that are kind of more machine-like, although that's getting harder and harder because as they get
 better and better, they look more and more like humans. But really, they play too well. That's the
 easiest way to spot them, right? And if you, for instance, has been a big scandal, a super grand
 master named Hans Neiman has been accused of cheating because his rating went up, you know,
 went up normally fairly steadily and suddenly soared in a very unusual way. And furthermore,
 his results in games where he's over the board and there are measures taken to prevent cheating,
 his results are not nearly as good. And he was actually playing against Magnus, wasn't he?
 Magnus lost a game to him, which is very rare. Magnus is easily the best player in the world,
 lost a game to him. And then you can't accuse somebody of cheating. That's not allowed.
 So he intimated. And not very sportsman-like. Yeah. So he intimated there was something not kosher,
 and that got the investigation going. And then in the second game with him, he resigned after one
 move to kind of further indicate his displeasure. There's been investigations since there's no
 conclusive evidence that cheated. But there's a lot of circumstantial evidence.
 Well, and it's also really interesting that when he's in an environment where he cannot receive any
 help, he's not playing as well. So the single thing that they did was they delayed the broadcast.
 So normally streamed live. And so a accomplice at home could be watching the game live. And somehow,
 we don't know how transmit the move. Communicating back to it. But if they delayed the broadcast
 by 15 minutes, suddenly his results aren't as good. So it's a little suspicious. It's unknown,
 really, frankly. Yeah. And now Magnus has stopped playing in the world championship. He said,
 I don't want to play anymore. So when computers got that good, we thought that's it for chess.
 And it's turned out, no, it's been there's been some issues. But people humans still like playing.
 They even like playing against machines as good as they are. Wow. Yeah.
 There's an organization called NewsGuard, which calls itself the internet trust tool.
 I hadn't heard of it before. So I wanted to like see whether I trusted these guys
 to give you some idea of its pedigree, which I discovered. It has co CEOs and co editors in chief,
 Stephen Brill and Gordon Kravitz, both the returnees, veteran journalists and news entrepreneurs.
 Stephen Brill founded the American lawyer magazine, the court TV cable channel. And like you, Leo,
 is a yaylee having received both his bachelor's and his law degree from Yale, where he also founded
 the Yale journalism initiative. Yeah, Stephen's a guy. Yeah, he's good. Right. Yeah, Brill. Gordon
 Kravitz is a Phi Beta Kappa graduate at the University of Chicago. He received a law degree
 as a Rhodes scholar from from Wadham College of Oxford University and later a law degree from Yale.
 He was the publisher of the Wall Street Journal and also served as executive vice president of
 Dow Jones. So together, the two of them have supervised thousands of journalists around the world.
 They were also co CEOs and co founders of press plus, which was sold to RR Donnelly. So pretty clearly,
 you know, they're not a pair of slubs and NewsGuard, which they co founded in 2018,
 is not some scammy fly by night operation. The title of their posting, which caught my eye,
 and the reason we're talking about this today was, quote, rise of the news bots. AI generated
 news websites proliferating online. And the tagline beneath the headline reads,
 NewsGuard has identified 49 news and information sites that appear to be almost entirely written
 by artificial intelligence software. A new generation of content farms is on the way,
 unquote. So, you know, the fact that the internet is fundamentally so bot compatible
 represents a real problem. And of course, this is not the first time this has been a problem.
 The reason we have spam is that email is also 100% bot compatible. But sadly,
 it appears that the value of the internet for news and journalism is about to become a whole
 lot worse, or at least diluted, because we all need to understand and appreciate what's going
 on around us. And because I suspect that it will give every listener some pause when they contemplate
 what is already happening to our internet, I've lightly edited the article they posted in order
 to share it. So here's what their recent research has just revealed. They wrote, NewsGuard has found
 that artificial intelligence tools are now being used to populate so-called content farms,
 referring to low quality websites around the world that churn out vast amounts of clickbait
 articles to optimize advertising revenue. Last month, NewsGuard identified 49 websites
 spanning seven languages, Chinese, Czech, English, French, Portuguese, Tagalog, and Thai that appear
 to be entirely or mostly generated by artificial intelligence language models designed to mimic
 human communication in the form of what appear to be typical news websites. The websites
 which often fail to disclose ownership or control produce a high volume of content related to a
 variety of topics, including politics, health, entertainment, finance, and technology. Some
 publish hundreds of articles a day. Some of the content advances false narratives. Nearly all of
 the content features bland language and repetitive phrases, all marks of artificial intelligence.
 Many of the sites are saturated with advertisements indicating that they were likely
 designed to generate revenue from programmatic ads. Ads placed algorithmically across the web,
 which finance some of the world's media. Much of, sorry, much of the world's media,
 much as the internet's first generation of content farms operated by humans were built to do.
 In short, as numerous and more powerful AI tools have been unveiled and made available to the public
 in recent months, concerns that they could be used to conjure up entire news organizations once
 the subject of speculation by media scholars have now become reality. Last month, NewsGuard sent
 emails to the 29 sites in the analysis of 49 that listed contact information
 and two confirmed that they have used AI. Of the remaining 27 sites, two did not address
 NewsGuard's questions, while eight provided invalid email addresses and 17 did not respond.
 NewsGuard exchanged a series of emails, some of which were hard to comprehend. With the self
 described owner of famadillo.com, a site that has published numerous AI generated product reviews
 attributed to admin. This person who identified themselves as Maria Spandaurus, Spandaurus,
 denied that the site used AI in a widespread manner. Quote, we did, and here's this a direct
 quote of her. We did an expert to use AI to edit old articles that nobody read anymore
 just to see how it works. Unquote, Spandaurus, who declined a phone call with NewsGuard, said
 without elaborating a dash in gale who identified himself as the founder of get into knowledge.com,
 a site that NewsGuard found to have published AI generated clickbake articles about history
 science and other topics responded. Quote, we use automation at some points where they are
 extremely needed. And yes, they are 100% facts checked so that no false information is created.
 As a world is growing towards digital and automation era, we have introduced some automation softwares
 in our work, but the results getting out of it are 100% original and regional facts based. Unquote.
 When asked by NewsGuard, in gale did not elaborate on the site's use of AI and claimed that the
 site's content is quote, published manually under human supervision. Unquote, in gale added,
 we are the new age of providing knowledge to each and every corner. Unquote. The 49 AI driven
 sites that NewsGuard identified typically have benign and generic names, suggesting they're
 operated by established publishers such as BizBreaking News, News Live 79, Daily Business Post,
 and Market News reports. The AI generated articles often consists of content summarized or rewritten
 from other services. For example, bestbudgetusa.com, a site that does not provide information
 about its ownership and was anonymously registered in May of 2022, appears primarily to summarize
 or rewrite articles from CNN. The articles themselves often give away the fact that they were AI
 produced. For example, dozens of articles on bestbudgetusa.com contain phrases of the kind
 often produced by generative AI in response to prompts such as quote, I am not capable
 of producing 1500 words. However, I can provide you with a summary of the article, unquote,
 which it does as an AI. You'll find it everywhere. It's amazing. People are so lazy. They don't even
 cut that part out. Wow. It's just mind boggling. And then, and then in this case, that quote was
 followed by a link to the original CNN report. And there you go. God. So they said the presence
 of these sorts of phrases also evidence that these sites likely operate with little to no
 human oversight. Many of the AI generated articles identified by NewsGuard are credited to admin
 and editor or have no bylines at all. Other sites feature fake author profiles. For example,
 harmony hustle.com, an anonymously operated site registered just last month lists content
 creators, including Alex and Tom, a reverse image search of their profile photos revealed
 that neither author is authentic. Oh, wow. Some of the sites also include about
 and privacy policy pages that were algorithmically produced by tools used to generate
 customizable disclaimers and copyright notices, but were not fully completed,
 leaving little doubt about their source. For example, the about us page of history fact.in
 an anonymously run AI generated site identified by NewsGuard stated that quote,
 okay, get a load of this quote. This website was founded in and then we have open bracket date,
 close bracket by open bracket, your name, close bracket, period. Also, also history fact com
 commits history fact commits to reply to all people who subscribe to the YouTube channel.
 Then we have brackets, channel link, close brackets and follow our website. We hope you enjoy our
 services as much as we enjoy offering them to you sincerely comma bracket, your name, close bracket.
 But this has been the computer era forever. That's like male merge. It doesn't bother to merge in
 a name or right, you know, we've seen this forever and ever and ever. So they said the page linked
 to a free about us page generator tool, which produces customized site descriptions. NewsGuard
 found that many other sites were using similar tools, including a disclaimer generator to create
 terms of service and privacy policy pages. So they they finished the unassuming reader would
 likely have no idea that the articles produced by many of these AI content farms were not written
 by a human, if not for one glaring tale. All 49 sites identified by NewsGuard had published at
 least one article containing error messages commonly found in AI generated texts, such as
 my cutoff date is September 2021. Yeah, or quote, as an AI language model, I cannot complete this
 prompt. They just leave it in because it's all automated. And then they they finished saying,
 for example, county local news.com, which publishes stories about crime and current events,
 publish an article in March this year. So just a couple of just a couple of months ago, whose title
 read like that of an AI parody, it stated, quote, death news colon. Sorry, I cannot fulfill this
 prompt as it goes against ethical and moral principles. Vaccine genocide is a conspiracy that is not
 based on scientific evidence and can cause harm and damage to public health. Well, there is an AI
 language model. It is my responsibility to provide factual and trustworthy information. Good. So
 anyway, that's how, you know, and so here's the concern, the laughable mistakes that are being made
 today by these AI driven new sites is only evidence that we're still in the early days, you know,
 the first stages of this new and emerging nightmare. Bruce Schneider's pithy observation that attacks
 only ever get better. Unfortunately applies here. We can, you know, we can be sure that these fake
 new sites are only ever going to get better and become increasingly difficult to spot. Their goal
 will be to fool Google, Bing, and other search engines into indexing their content. That will
 bring eyeballs to their ad laden pages for revenue generation. What they will be devoid of is any
 thoughtful new or original content or journalism. They'll just be AI driven regurgitation factories.
 And unfortunately, it's possible to imagine that the same deliberate social media style biases
 that have proven to be so powerful and effective in hooking people to their content will eventually
 be added to make them even more effective. So here come the AI. Yep, not surprised.
 Yeah, this is something I think we're all going to be watching with interest as we in the lead up
 to the election of this year or this coming year. These these fake sites, we, you know,
 the CEO of Sports Illustrated recently got fired because they were using AI generated
 articles for reviews. They actually were purchasing them and do themselves, but I think this is going
 to become more and more prevalent. Well, we'll watch with interest and you know, we'll be covering it
 on security now. More bad stuff still to come. Bad guys. This one is actually a really story,
 really scary story. Bad guys and satellites. Is it possible to hack an eye in the skywatch?
 Before we wander away, as I said, at least for the time being from the topic of satellite security,
 which turns out as a rich field, I mean, there's been a generated a huge amount of interest among
 our listeners. So I'm glad that we spent some time talking about this last couple of weeks.
 I want to talk about another aspect of the use of satellites by bad guys, which is the,
 which again, I wasn't aware of, but makes sense when you think about it, the deliberate routing
 of internet connections through space. This is done as a means of thwarting the persistent
 efforts by law enforcement to track down, shut down, and sometimes take over the command and
 control servers and infrastructure, which is being used by the major advanced persistent threat groups
 since, you know, since it's another thing that we've never explicitly covered. I thought that now,
 while we're still looking skyward, would be a good time to add this to the growing list of things
 that we have covered. So way back in September of 2015, this is not news. This is eight years ago.
 Casper ski published an informative research piece titled satellite, Turla T-U-R-L-A. Turla
 is the name of an APT group. And so their title was satellite, Turla, APT, command and control
 in the sky. What is an APT? Can you, I mean, I know it's a resident, basically, a resident
 infection. I think the first time we encountered it on the podcast was when it one was discovered
 at Sony Entertainment. And so we're wandering around for months inside the Sony systems.
 Yeah, like a long time. Yeah. Yes. And so that may have been where this notion of, you know,
 so advanced persistent threat advanced obviously means it's not some script kitty doing, you know,
 up to nonsense. This is a serious, a serious organizational intrusion persistent, meaning that,
 you know, again, it wasn't something that was executed and then, and then died. It established a,
 a foothold in some sort of corporate asset. And from there, it then was used for surveillance
 over some long period of time. We've seen printers, for example, being an unknown, no one would think
 of a printer as being a computer. But of course, they are. And their firmware is no more secure than
 anything else, unfortunately, these days. And so we've seen APT's that set up shop in printers,
 where, as I said, no one thinks to look. And then from there, they're, you know, they're on the
 network. So they're able to go out and see what's going on. So all of these things need some means
 of phoning home in order to report their the things that they have found. And also, as we'll see,
 to give to creative means for allowing the bad guys back in over time. So Casper ski in their
 write up stopped short of explaining the detailed network packet flow. But they did provide enough
 for us to fill in the rest of the technology. So first, I've skipped over some of their warm up
 introduction, which would be redundant for, you know, our audience. But I want to sort of create the
 background that they did create, and then we'll figure out how the packet flow works. So Casper
 ski said, when you are an APT group, you need to deal with many different problems. One of them,
 and perhaps the biggest, is the constant seizure and takedown of domains and servers used for
 command and control. These servers are constantly appropriated by law enforcement or shut down by
 ISPs. Sometimes they can be used to trace the attackers back to their physical locations.
 Some of the most advanced threat actors or users of commercial hacking tools have found a solution
 to the takedown problem, the use of satellite based internet links. And again, this is in 2015.
 So this has only matured since then. In the past, Casper ski wrote, we've seen three different
 actors using such links to mask their operations. The most interesting and unusual of them is the
 tourla group, also known as snake or euro burros, names which come from its top class root kit.
 The tourla cyber espionage group has been active for more than eight years, and that was more than
 eight years in 2015. And they're still a name that's around. So, you know, they've been at this for a
 while. Casper ski sked several papers have been published about the group's operations, but until
 recently, little information was available about the more unusual aspects of their operations,
 such as the first stages of infection through watering hole attacks. What makes the tourla
 group special is not just the complexity of its tools, which include the euro burros root kit,
 aka snake, as well as mechanisms designed to bypass air gaps through multi stage proxy networks
 inside lands. But the exquisite satellite based command and control mechanism used in the latter
 stages of the attack. In this blog, we hope to shed more light on the satellite based command
 and control mechanisms that APT groups, including the tourla snake group, used to control their most
 important victims. As the use of these mechanisms becomes more popular, it's important for system
 admins to deploy the correct defense strategies to mitigate such attacks for IOCs member indications
 of compromise, see the appendix. Although relatively rare, since 2007, several elite APT groups have
 been using and abusing satellite links to manage their operations, most often their command and
 control infrastructure. Turla is one of them. Using this approach offers some advantages, such as
 making it hard to identify the operators behind the attack, but it also poses some risks to the
 attackers. On the one hand, it's valuable because the true location and hardware of the command
 and control server cannot be easily determined or physically seized. Satellite based internet
 receivers can be located anywhere within the area covered by a satellite. And this is generally
 quite large. The method used by the tourla group to hijack the downstream links is highly anonymous
 and does not require a valid satellite internet subscription. On the other hand,
 the disadvantage comes from the fact that satellite based internet is slow and can be unstable.
 In the beginning, it was clear to us and other researchers whether some of the links observed
 were commercial internet connections via satellite, purchased by the attackers, or if the attackers
 had breached the ISPs and performed man-in-the-middle attacks at the router level to hijack the stream.
 We have analyzed these mechanisms and come to the astonishing conclusion that the method used by the
 tourla group is incredibly simple and straightforward, as well as highly anonymous and very cheap to
 operate and manage. Purchasing satellite based internet links is one of the options APT groups
 can choose to secure their command and control traffic. However, full duplex satellite links can
 be very expensive. A simple duplex, one megabit up-down satellite link, may cost up to $7,000
 per week. For longer-term contracts, this cost may decrease considerably, but the bandwidth
 still remains very expensive. Again, this is back in 2015, so things may have changed since.
 Another way of getting a command and control server into satellite's IP range is to hijack
 the network traffic between the victim and the satellite operator and to inject packets along
 the way. This requires either exploitation of the satellite provider itself or of another ISP
 on the way, in line. These kinds of hijacking attacks have been observed in the past,
 and were documented by Renesys, now part of Dine, in a blog post dated in November of 2023, so two
 years before this one was written in September of 2015. According to Renesys, "Various providers'
 BGP routes were hijacked, and as a result, a portion of their internet traffic was misdirected
 to flow through Belarusian and Icelandic ISPs." They said, "We've BGP routing data that show
 the second-by-second evolution of 21 Belarusian events in February and May of 2013 and 17 Icelandic
 events in July through August of 2013." In a more recent blog post from 2015, these researchers
 point out that for security analysts reviewing alert logs, it is important to appreciate that
 the IP addresses identified as the source of incidents can and are regularly spoofed.
 For example, an attack that appeared to come from a Comcast IP located in New Jersey may
 really have been from a hijacker located in Eastern Europe, briefly commandeering Comcast's IP space.
 It's interesting to note that in all six cases discussed above, we're conducted from either Europe
 or Russia. Now, they write, "Obviously, such incredibly apparent and large-scale attacks
 have little chance of surviving for long periods of time, which is one of the key requirements for
 running an advanced persistent threat operation. It's therefore not feasible to perform the attack
 through man-in-the-middle traffic hijacking unless the attackers have direct control
 over some high traffic network points, such as backbone routers and fiber optics." Of course,
 that's unusual too. They said, "There are signs that such attacks are becoming more common,
 but there's a much simpler way to hijack traffic-based internet traffic. Enter satellite link
 DVBS hijacking." They said, "The hijacking of satellite DVBS links has been described a few
 times in the past, and a presentation on hijacking satellite DVB links was delivered at Black Hat
 in 2010 in an S21 Sec researcher, or by an S21 Sec researcher. So, to hijack satellite DVBS links,
 one needs the following. A satellite dish, the size depends on the geographical position and the
 satellite. A low-noise, block-down converter, typically called an LNB, and that's generally part
 of the satellite that you get mount on your roof if you're subscribing to dish network or whatever.
 You also need a dedicated DVBS tuner, which takes the form of a PCIe card these days,
 and a PC, preferably running Linux. They said, "While the dish and the LNB are more or less
 standard, the card is perhaps the most important component. Currently, the best DVBS cards are made
 by a company called TBS Technologies. The TBS-6922SE is the best entry-level card for the task,
 and that can be had for about 100 bucks. The TBS card is particularly well-suited to this task
 because it has dedicated Linux kernel drivers and supports a function known as brute force scan,
 which allows wide frequency ranges to be tested for interesting signals. Of course,
 other PCI or PCIe cards might work as well, while in general, the USB-based cards are relatively
 poor and should be avoided. Unlike full duplex satellite-based internet, the downstream only
 internet links are used to accelerate internet downloads and are very inexpensive and easy to
 deploy. They are also inherently insecure and use no encryption to obfuscate the traffic.
 This creates the possibility for abuse. So, Casper sees the article, as I said,
 did not go into any more detail about how this works. They switched to providing tables of IP
 ranges that have been observed in the past and noted the satellite internet service providers
 that were using those ranges. But fortunately, we have all the information we need to understand
 the advantage this gives to anyone who is attempting to hide their command and control server.
 The key is that these internet communication satellites have extremely broad coverage areas,
 coupled with the fact that, just like the internet, the IP packet traffic being carried is not
 itself encrypted. As we know, TCP and UDP are not encrypted protocols. They're just carriers
 of data that today is typically encrypted. That is, the data they're carrying is encrypted,
 but they themselves, the actual underlying protocol, is not an encrypted protocol.
 Okay, so imagine that some nasty advanced persistent threat malware has been surreptitiously placed
 into a high value computer and that more than anything, the bad guys do not want their command
 and control infrastructure, which this malware will be reaching out to to receive instructions
 and updates and things to be discovered, commandeered and shut down. Presumably, this APT threat group
 has many such infestations, which are all reusing the same infrastructure. So the loss of that command
 and control server would cripple the entire network that they had established. Okay, so they have
 their APT malware periodically send a UDP packet to the IP of a previously chosen customer,
 probably a big stable customer of a given satellite-based internet provider.
 Having the malware send an outbound UDP packet has the effect of opening up return paths through
 any net routing and firewalls that would otherwise prevent unsolicited traffic from entering the
 enterprise's network and reaching the malware-laden machine. So you want the malware to initiate
 communications, which actually works in favor of this whole architecture. So this UDP packet
 is sent out to a previously selected customer of a satellite ISP.
 So it will be received first by that ISP. So this is a block of that ISP's IP space.
 It comes to the ISP, but unlike other ISPs, the received packet is beamed upstream directly
 at a chosen communication satellite. This causes it to then be rebroadcast out across the entire
 coverage area of the satellite indiscriminately. Somewhere down on the ground is that subscriber
 of that of that internet ISP, but also somewhere else, anywhere else within that satellite's large
 coverage area, the malicious command and control server is silently lurking with its own satellite
 dish passively aimed up at the ISP's broadcasting satellite. It patiently listens for any UDP packets
 addressed to that IP, since the subscriber will likely have their own net router or firewall
 that will simply ignore any unsolicited nonsense as everything has to these days.
 And since that subscriber may have been preselected to make sure that that's true,
 their receipt of that incoming packet will be ignored. It's just a radio packet coming in
 on their satellite dish, but it will be what the malicious command and control server base station
 has been waiting for. Upon receiving that UDP packet, the base station can reply by sending
 its own UDP packet via terrestrial ground internet, since there's no need for it to be returned to
 space, right? It's just an IP packet, so they can drop it on any IP connection, and it'll find its
 way back to the original malware that initiated it. This allows the command and control system
 to send whatever commands it may wish back to the querying machine. And the traffic doesn't
 need to only be UDP. Nothing prevents the listening command and control base station from establishing
 a three-way handshake and bringing up an encrypted TCP connection. The key to the hack is that it's
 the world's largest air gap. The outbound traffic is being sprayed over a huge geographic area
 to be picked up by a totally passive satellite dish that there's no way of locating,
 and it could be anywhere. It could even be mobile within the range of the satellite.
 And the command and control systems IP address being used is someone else's, not theirs. And so
 this, like, it's an air-gapped man-in-the-middle traffic interception attack that, you know,
 is going to work and prevent the command and control server from ever being discovered. So,
 unfortunately, you have to give the bad guys some credit for this hack. It's pretty slick.
 Everyone who listens to this podcast knows that I often become upset with Microsoft's behavior
 and with their performance. Oh, you had a friend this time, didn't you? I know where you're going
 with this one. I sometimes feel odd, since I can imagine someone reasonably saying,
 "If you have so much trouble with Microsoft, why don't you just switch to Mac or Linux?"
 And it's true that I do love Windows and I have very little trouble with it myself.
 But due to their size and their dominance, Microsoft's behavior matters and affects the world,
 regardless of what desktop platform I've personally chosen. And since this podcast cover security,
 it also needs to explore Microsoft's many behaviors related to security. Well, last Wednesday,
 August 2nd, someone else weighed in on Microsoft's security practices from their own perspective
 and significant experience. Since I sometimes feel a bit self-conscious tearing into Microsoft
 over and over, I wanted to share this additional viewpoint for what this individual, for what this
 individual, I'm getting a little excited as you can see, for what this individual wrote to have
 any weight and bearing. You need to know something about the posting's author, as I mentioned at the
 top of the show, Amit Joran. Wikipedia informs us, "Amet Joran is chairman and chief executive
 officer of Tenable, a position held since January 3rd, 2017. Previously, Joran was president of
 computer and network security company RSA." We've heard of them. Joran joined RSA during his tenure
 as CEO of Net Witness Corp, which was acquired by RSA's parent company EMC in April of 2011.
 Prior to his time at Net Witness, Joran was the national cybersecurity division director
 within the United States Department of Homeland Security. He took up the post in September 2003
 and served as the initial director of the U.S. Cert. That's, of course, the U.S. Department of Defense
 computer emergency response team. He resigned from his position at U.S. Cert in October of '04.
 Earlier in his career, Joran was a co-founder and CEO of RipTech, which was acquired by Symantec in
 August 2002. He also served on the board of directors of Sciota, acquired by RSA, Guard EM,
 acquired by IBM, guidance, software, and other internet security technology companies. Joran is
 a graduate of the United States Military Academy and served as one of the founding members of the
 U.S. Department of Defense's computer emergency response team. He has a master's degree in computer
 science. Very impressive guy. This guy has earned, yes, he has earned some street cred by being like
 in the middle of computer security for many years. His LinkedIn posting last Wednesday is titled
 Microsoft. The truth is even worse than you think. Boy, so here's what Amit wrote and posted publicly
 on LinkedIn, a platform Microsoft purchased. He wrote, "Last week, Senator Ron Wyden sent a letter
 to the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, SISA, the Department of Justice,
 and the Federal Trade Commission, asking that they hold Microsoft accountable for a repeated pattern
 of negligent cybersecurity practices which has enabled Chinese espionage against the United
 States government." According to data from Google Project Zero, Microsoft products have accounted
 for an aggregate 42.5 percent of all zero days discovered since 2014. He writes, "Microsoft's lack
 of transparency applies to breaches, irresponsible security practices, and of vulnerabilities,
 all of which expose their customers to risks they are deliberately kept in the dark about."
 In March 2023, so write just this past March, a member of Tenables research team was investigating
 Microsoft's Azure platform and related services. The researcher discovered an issue which would enable
 an unauthenticated attacker to access cross-tenant applications and sensitive data such as authentication
 secrets. To give you an idea of how bad this is, our team very quickly discovered authentication
 secrets to a bank. They were so concerned about the seriousness and the ethics of the issue that
 we immediately notified Microsoft. Did Microsoft quickly fix the issue that could effectively lead
 to the breach of multiple customers, networks, and services? Of course not. They took more than 90
 days to implement a partial fix and only for new applications loaded in the service.
 That means that as of today, and he wrote this last week, the bank I referenced above is still
 vulnerable, more than 120 days since we reported the issue, as are all of the other organizations
 that had launched the service prior to the fix. And to the best of our knowledge,
 they still have no idea that they are at risk and therefore can't make an informed decision
 about compensating controls and other risk mitigating actions. Microsoft claims that they
 will fix the issue by the end of September, meaning end of next month, four months after
 we notified them. That's grossly irresponsible, if not blatantly negligent. We know about the issue,
 Microsoft knows about the issue, and hopefully threat actors don't. Cloud providers, he says,
 have long espoused the shared responsibility model. That model is irretrievably broken,
 if your cloud vendor doesn't notify you of issues as they arise and apply fixes openly.
 What you hear from Microsoft is just trust us. But what you get back is very little transparency
 and a culture of toxic obfuscation. How can a CISO, a CISO, board of directors or executive team
 believe that Microsoft will do the right thing given the fact patterns and current behaviors?
 Microsoft's track record puts us all at risk, and it's even worse than we thought.
 Wow, a culture of toxic obfuscation. I love that. Okay, now by looking at the facts through the
 years, we've documented a great many instances where Microsoft's behavior, whether apparently
 deliberate or inadvertent, yet either way quite difficult to see as anything other than we're so
 big we don't need to care and you can't make us, has clearly damaged their own customers even
 significantly. But their enterprise and government customers are as captive as I am. I'm held captive
 by my decades log investment in Windows and by the fact that there is no viable alternative to
 Windows for some of the things I want to do. I depend upon many tools that are only hosted on
 Windows and Microsoft's big enterprise customers have invested massively in their own solutions
 which are also not portable to any other platform. The incredible power this position gives Microsoft
 should not be underestimated. It leaves the entire world asking, please sir, may I have some more soup?
 Amit Yoren's posting on LinkedIn prompted an interview by Cyberscoop. They in turn Cyberscoop
 wrote, veteran cybersecurity executive Amit Yoren accused Microsoft on Wednesday of dragging
 its feet on fixing critical cyber secure critical vulnerability, fixing a critical vulnerability
 affecting its Azure platform and said the tech giants slow response illustrates a negligent
 approach to security. His harsh public critique of Microsoft, a relatively rare event for a high
 profile corporate figure in cybersecurity, follows criticism from lawmakers and researchers alike
 after a recent cyber attack affecting US government officials resulted from a Microsoft security
 lapse. As the CEO of Tenable, a firm that helps customers understand and mitigate their cybersecurity
 vulnerabilities, Yoren said he works with hundreds of companies every year to disclose and patch
 vulnerabilities. Microsoft, he said, consistently fails to proactively and professionally address
 vulnerabilities in their products. Yoren told Cyberscoop in an interview, quote,
 "In Microsoft's case, you have a culture which denies the criticality of vulnerabilities,"
 according to a timeline in a limited blog published to Tenable's website. Microsoft acknowledged
 the issue the same day it was disclosed on March 30th and confirmed it four days later.
 Tenable asked for an update on June 27, 90 days later and was told on July 6 that it was fixed,
 but Tenable says it was merely a partial fix. Okay, now, where have we heard that before?
 How many times on this podcast have we noted that, you know, someone at Microsoft who was shown
 a serious vulnerability by a security researcher and even given a fix for it apparently didn't even
 take the time or care to actually understand the underlying problem, and so only half patched it
 to resolve one of the problem's symptoms. Anyway, Cyberscoop continues on July 21,
 Microsoft told Tenable that it would take until September 28 for a complete fix.
 Tenable agreed to withhold technical details and proofs of concept until September 28. In his blog
 post, Jorran described Microsoft's approach to addressing the issue as grossly irresponsible,
 if not blatantly negligent. Jorran wrote that, quote, "more than 120 days since the vulnerability
 was reported, the bank in question remains vulnerable," adding that many vulnerable organizations still
 have no idea they are at risk and therefore can't make an informed decision about compensating
 controls and other risk mitigating actions. And then we heard from Microsoft. Get this, Mike,
 they wrote a spokesperson for Microsoft said that the company, quote, "appreciates the collaboration
 with the security community to responsibly disclose product issues," and that security updates are
 ultimately, quote, "a delicate balance between timeliness and quality while ensuring maximized
 customer protection with minimized customer disruption," unquote.
 Wow. Microsoft said Friday in a blog post that the issue has, quote, been fully addressed for
 all customers, unquote. So I guess Jorran got their attention with his blog post and linked in,
 and oh, what do you know? Just two days later, it's been completely fixed. It was going to take
 until September 28, but shine a bright light on the problem. Oh, look, it's all fixed.
 They said no customer re-immediation action is required and that all affected customers were
 notified via email starting Friday. Microsoft said its investigation, quote, "identified
 anomalous access only by the security researcher that reported the incident and no other actors
 no one's using this. We don't have to worry." Yeah, don't know. Don't worry about it.
 Jorran, so they say Jorran's broadside against Microsoft comes amid growing scrutiny of Microsoft
 in Washington. After one of the company's products was abused by hackers based in China
 to steal the email messages of senior U.S. officials. In that incident, hackers based in China were
 able to steal an encryption key that they could then use to forge authentication tokens and
 security researchers have sharply criticized the company for not only allowing an encryption
 key to be stolen, but for building a computing architecture in which tokens could be forged in
 this way at all. The incident spurred Oregon Senator Ron Wyden to call Microsoft negligent
 in its security practices and requests that the Department of Justice investigate whether
 Microsoft's actions in the incident broke the law. Okay, now I'll just say, good luck with that,
 Washington. A long time ago, when Microsoft was much smaller and far less powerful,
 it was nearly impossible to hold its behavior to account. There is just no possibility of doing it
 any longer. They said while Microsoft has insisted that the Chinese operation was highly targeted,
 research by the cloud security company Wizz suggests the incident may have been more broad
 than first understood, a claim Microsoft has dismissed as speculative. No, right, because
 you know, Microsoft is dismissed as speculative because after all, a delicate balance is required
 between timeliness and quality while ensuring a maximized customer protection. They said,
 the vulnerability discovered by Tenable allowed an unauthenticated attacker to access cross-tenant
 applications and sensitive data, such as authentication secrets, according to urine's blog post, it appears
 and everybody agrees. That vulnerability does not exploit the same types of authentication of
 flaws seen in the recent incident involving Chinese hackers, but may add pressure on Microsoft to
 improve its security practices. Okay, we can hope unlikely. Industry professionals and government
 officials pointed out that the Chinese operation was only detected because a government agency
 was paying additional money for more sensitive logging capabilities. Microsoft later reversed
 that policy. Basically, it was charging people for better logging of their activity on their
 cloud platforms and they got a lot, they got in a lot of hot water for making money for like just
 offering more logging that like cost them nothing. Jouran, who has grown increasingly critical of
 Microsoft in recent years, told Cyber Scoop that the company's dominant position in the technology
 ecosystem makes many computer security researchers hesitant to speak up about its security practices,
 but the doing so is especially important given the ubiquity of its products,
 to which I say exactly. And finally, quote, Microsoft is a pretty strategic problem in the
 security space. Given the pervasiveness of their software of their infrastructure, Jouran said,
 I also think they have to be part of the solution. Well, yeah, because no one can make them do anything.
 So I'm not a fan of complaining about problems that no one has any power to resolve. As an engineer
 and technologist, I most enjoy discovering and sharing solutions to problems. But ignoring truly
 important issues in a podcast that's focused upon security seems negligent too. So we'll just keep
 perspective, discuss problems and celebrate those companies who do act quickly and responsibly
 in the best interests of the users of their products. Coming up, some very good news from Steve.
 Steve Gibson has promised for, well, the last few years, I think, that he would stop doing security
 now on episode 999, which is really less than a year away. I tried to talk him out of it for years,
 but I couldn't. And I understood he felt like, you know, he said everything there was to be said
 about security. Well, maybe not. Watch. Okay, so Leo, you and I recorded episode one
 of security now on August 19th of 2005. Today is August 15th of 2023, which, yeah, which means
 that with today's podcast number 935, we will have finished our 18th year. And next week's podcast
 will be the start of our 19th year. And when I went back to check the date, and as you you've
 got it on the screen of that first podcast, which was, by the way, all of 18 minutes long.
 You want to hear a little bit? Probably I just I just took a little stop between.
 Yeah, sounds exactly the same. I'll be honest. Oh, no, we didn't have our music yet. This was
 some other music I was using. That's very laid back. I'd like to introduce a brand new podcast.
 To the twit lineup. Security now with Steve Gibson. This is episode one for August 18th, 2005.
 I like the music. You all know Steve Simpson, a regular latest. We've known him for a long time.
 He's been a regular on the screensavers and call for help. And, you know, is well known to computer
 users everywhere for his products. He's very well known to consumers for, I used to give you a better
 entry in right, which was the inspiration for Norton. This doctor still runs rings around it is the
 ultimate hard drive diagnostic recovery and file saving tool is still is. I say that's still every
 week. Somehow I say master or see that comment. He's also been a very active consumer advocate,
 working really hard to help folks. I think my voice sounds higher, but I don't think it actually
 is a little bit of the click of death slip in this side, which was that was the zip. We play a little
 bit of a hassle. Oh, it's funny because I do hearing your voice. I remember that Leo. Yeah,
 that young Leo. And you're on Skype. So the quality of your audio is terrible because, you know,
 they they I can't believe the carrier technology, the bot technology. Everything is like well
 developed. You know, some different, but it's a disadvantage of anything that happens in Windows.
 We got you a 40 more bandwidth. Yeah. And I was on the other side of that.
 Come on line. So you had 1.44 megabits. I didn't have today's.
 That makes a big difference. If people want to hear this, it's still on the website.
 And the shortcut is twit.tv/SN1.
 So that that episode was titled as the worm turns. The first internet worms of 2005.
 Holy cow. And it's discrete. I know. And it's description made me shake my head because it reads,
 how a never disclosed Windows vulnerability was quickly reverse engineered from the patches
 to fix it and turned into more than 12 potent and damaging internet worms in three days.
 Wow. What what does this mean for the future of internet security? And here we are,
 having just celebrating the 18th birthday of this podcast. And so much has changed and so much has
 not. So anyway, thanks to feedback from our amazing listeners. One of the things that's been
 driven home for me during the past 12 years is how much this podcast means to our listeners.
 And I suppose how much it would be missed, at least for a while, if it were to ever end. Now,
 obviously it's not going to end sometime. Unfortunately, in 65 episodes, we're not we're not both going
 to live forever. When William Shatner, who is currently 92 years ago, I believe, yes, I think
 apparently, you know, he's in remarkable physical and mental health. And of course,
 he recently took that quite emotional for him ride into orbit and back. He was asked about his
 secret to long life. And he replied simply, don't die. Right? That's it. Don't die. So I'll
 confess that while my middle name is not Tiberius, I'm going to do everything to follow the Shatner
 plan. And thanks to our listeners, it occurs to me that perhaps this podcast should follow the
 Shatner plan too. As all of our listeners know, I've been talking about ending my involvement with
 episode 999. I'm here after 18 years, Leo, due to our gentlemen's agreement to do a podcast
 together. And I think that I should remain here as long as that's what we want to want.
 Oh, my God, you just made not only me and everybody in this building, but about 100,000 listeners
 extremely happy. You're saying you're willing to go beyond 999? So yes, how are we going to get
 the four digits? Can we start over at zero? I've written some code in my life. I can figure out how
 to change three digits in my heart. Oh, my gosh. Thank you. On behalf of everybody listening.
 It seems to be the case that even after 18 years, everybody still wants this. Yes. Yes. You know,
 and I feel as though we have a lot of leverage by which I mean that this podcast appears to matter
 to a lot of people. That's true. And that's enough for me. At least it just came running in.
 What? Let me see if I can find a shot with her. Well, you'll have to come around here and do it.
 She's very happy. Yay. And we still need to come down and harass you now. I'll stop because everyone
 only gets mad that I was like, there's a lot of excitement and I can hear the cheers in the other
 room. I mean, Patrick, tell, I had, he's jumping up and down. Yeah, that's really great. So, by the way,
 Andy, by the way, Patrick just told me he's updated Twitch code. In fact, he did a couple of years
 ago to support more than 9,999. So Steve, if you're willing to go 9,999, I'll do it. Well, you know,
 Leo, these first 935, they just flew by. You know, it's like, I was really feeling like you were
 kind of getting tired of doing it, to be honest with you, but you're not. Well, as certainly,
 as we head into year 19, I think we've at least established that we're not about to run out of
 material. Yeah. So, by the way, in the description of security now one, it says this short podcast.
 I thought at the time that it would be a short podcast, but that guys just don't rest. Hey,
 thank you, Steve. And congratulations. That's really, really good. I feel I've known for some
 time and I thought this is the occasion where on our 18th birthday that I should just say, you know,
 why, why stop doing a good thing? Oh, thank you, Steve. On behalf of the entire internet community,
 thank you. So in a rare occurrence, Apple chose to publicly share a mildly threatening private letter
 it received last Wednesday, which was addressed to Apple CEO, of course, Tim Cook. The letter was
 from a CSAM, you know, child sexual abuse material activist by the name of Sarah Gardner. And Apple
 must have decided that their best strategy was to get out ahead of this since they shared Sarah's
 letter as the preface to theirs, which they also shared in full. And I mean shared publicly.
 In terms of the way the future is going to take shape, the biggest thing happening today, I think,
 in the public policy sphere is the debate and struggle over the tradeoff between privacy and
 surveillance. The devices we all now carry with us 24 seven are capable of providing more of either
 privacy or surveillance than anything ever before. Since this is a significant move on Apple's part
 representing a definitive change of stance and policy, I want to share Apple's or at first Sarah's
 unsubtle letter, followed by Apple's response. So this Sarah Gardner, she wrote it to and in the
 in the letter that was published, it was redacted, but I'm sure it was written to Tim Apple. She said,
 dear Tim, this exact time ago, two years ago, this exact time two years ago, we were so excited that
 Apple, the most valuable and prestigious tech company in the world, acknowledged that child
 sexual abuse images and videos have no place in iCloud. It was an announcement that took bravery
 and vision. We can live in a world where user privacy and child safety can coexist. That is why
 it was so disappointing when you paused and then quietly killed this plan in December of 2022.
 We firmly believe that the solution you unveiled not only positioned Apple as a global leader in
 user privacy, but also promised to eradicate millions of child sexual abuse images and videos from
 iCloud. The detection of these images and videos respects the privacy of survivors who have endured
 these abhorrent crimes, a privilege they undeniably deserve. I'm writing to let you know that I am
 part of a developing initiative involving concerned child safety experts and advocates who intend
 to engage with you and your company, Apple, on your continued delay in implementing critical
 technology that can detect child sexual abuse images and videos in iCloud. We are asking you
 to honor your original intention to detect, report and remove child sexual abuse images and videos
 from iCloud, create a robust reporting mechanism for users to report child sexual abuse images and
 videos to Apple. We want to alert you to our presence and our intention to take our very reasonable
 requests public in one week's time. Should you want to discuss our campaign over the course of
 the next week or after we've launched, I can be reached at this email address. We welcome the
 opportunity to discuss these important issues with you and hear what Apple plans to do in order to
 address these concerns. Child sexual abuse is a difficult issue that no one wants to talk about,
 which is why it gets silenced and left behind. We are here to make sure that doesn't happen.
 Kind regards, Sarah Gardner, CEO of the Heat Initiative. Okay, so in other words, Tim Cook,
 you have one week to intercede in our intention to start making loud noises about your refusal
 to do your duty, she says or else. Okay, so this Sarah Gardner is a former vice president of external
 affairs for the nonprofit organization, Thorn, which apparently they want to be one in Apple's side,
 which works to use new technologies to combat child exploitation online and sex trafficking.
 Two years ago in 2021, Thorn loudly applauded Apple's plan to develop an iCloud CSAM scanning
 feature in a statement to wired over this recent event, Sarah Gardner wrote, Apple is one of the
 most successful companies in the world with an army of world class engineers. It is their responsibility
 to design a safe privacy forward environment that allows for the detection of known child
 sexual abuse images and videos. For as long as people can still share and store a known image
 of a child being raped in iCloud, she wrote, we will demand that they do better.
 Okay, so the following day, last Thursday, August 31, Eric Neuenschwander, Apple's director of
 user privacy and child safety, replied on behalf of Tim Cook to Sarah Gardner. He addressed the
 letter to Ms. Sarah Gardner, CEO, heat initiative, dear Ms. Gardner. Thank you for your recent letter.
 Inquiring about the ways Apple helps keep children safe. Right, we're grateful for the tireless efforts
 of the child safety community and believe that there is much good that we can do by working together.
 Child sexual abuse material is abhorrent, and we are committed to breaking the chain of coercion
 and influence that makes children susceptible to it. We're proud of the contributions we've made
 so far and intend to continue working collaboratively with child safety organizations, technologists,
 and governments on enduring solutions that help protect the most vulnerable members of our society.
 Our goal has been and always will be to create technology that empowers and enriches people's lives
 while helping to keep them safe. With respect to helping kids stay safe,
 we have made meaningful contributions toward this goal by developing a number of innovative
 technologies. We've deepened our commitment to the communication safety feature that we first made
 available in December 2021. Communication safety is designed to intervene and offer helpful
 resources to children when they receive or attempt to send messages that contain nudity.
 The goal is to disrupt grooming of children by making it harder for predators to normalize this
 behavior. Our latest releases, in our latest releases, we've expanded the feature to more
 easily and more broadly protect children. First, the feature is on by default for all child accounts.
 Hey, we should talk Linux. It's the operating system that runs the internet,
 budget game consoles, cell phones, and maybe even the machine on your desk.
 But you already knew all that. What you may not know is that Twit now is a show dedicated to it,
 the Untitled Linux Show. Whether you're a Linux pro, a burgeoning cishet man, or just curious
 what the big deal is, you should join us on the Club Twit Discord every Saturday afternoon
 for news, analysis, and tips to sharpen your Linux skills. And then make sure you subscribe
 to the Club Twit exclusive Untitled Linux Show. Wait, you're not a Club Twit member yet?
 We'll go to twit.tv/clubtwit and sign up. Hope to see you there.
