 NetCasts you love, from people you trust.
 Bandwidth for Security Now is provided by AOL Radio at aol.com/podcasting.
 This is Security Now with Steve Gibson, Episode 91, from May 10, 2007.
 Mark Mayfrae of EI Digital Security.
 Security Now is brought to you by Astarro, makers of the Astarro Security Gateway, on the web at www.ASTARO.com.
 And by Nerds on Site, looking to grow your IT service business, find out how Nerds on Site can help.
 It's time for Security Now Episode 91 in a great episode of one of the rare interview episodes coming up in just a little bit.
 Let's welcome Steve Gibson of GRC.com fame.
 Hello Steve.
 Hey Leo, of course we're cheating a little bit.
 We already recorded this fantastic interview with Mark Mayfrae, who is the founder, actually co-founder, with a friend of his of EI.
 Security, that we talk about, I mean, their name comes up over and over and over, because these are the guys, for example, that are finding all kinds of problems in Windows,
 telling Microsoft about them, and then waiting month and month and month from Microsoft to finally patch the problem,
 during which, and I remember saying this, and one of the questions I asked Mark was I wanted to make sure we were right about this,
 during that interval, when they are aware of a vulnerability, Windows and Microsoft, well, I should not say Windows, Microsoft is aware of a vulnerability,
 and there's this window of potential zero-day exploitation.
 Well, due to the technology that EI has, their users are preemptively protected.
 And in fact, not only are they protected, and this is actually even better than I was saying, not only are they protected because EI knows well before Windows has been updated,
 but EI's technology, as we're going to hear Mark describe it, is fundamentally preemptive because he's doing a filtering at many levels,
 one of which is the protocol level.
 So, for example, they're looking at the data coming in, for sanity checking, saying does this make sense? And so even if there's a vulnerability,
 which Windows is unaware of, and which actually EI is unaware of, their system will catch and block unknown problems.
 And what we learned really, and I'm very excited about this, I want to make sure people don't miss this, is there is essentially a one-year free download for domestic users.
 And even after that one year, Blink is very affordable.
 I'm very excited about what we learned during this hour-long conversation with Mark.
 Well, we'll get to that, of course, in just a little bit, before we do anything you want to clear up, clean up, fix or rebut from the last episode?
 Yes, I'm going to try to do a better job of reading my mail because I'm finding so much good stuff in there.
 So, I'm expanding the definition of our top of the show, Erata, to calling it maybe Erata and Mailbag.
 So that we have the opportunity of sharing just one or two good things that the people have noted.
 And many listeners commented about RSA's secure ID.
 You remember that two weeks ago, or was it last week, it was last week, we talked about the multi-factor authentication.
 And secure ID was RSA's token that shows a six-digit constantly changing, well, changing once every minute,
 changing number, it's sort of a pseudo-random sequence.
 It moves through a progression that is a function of the cryptographic information stored inside this thing.
 And whenever you connect to an RSA-based server, it's able to synchronize.
 Well, I mean, a huge number of people said, "Hey, we use secure ID, and one thing you forgot to mention is
 that when you set up for this system, you provide them with a password which you prepend to the front of those six digits."
 So that adds something you know to the something you have in order to get two-factor authentication.
 And it's clear that this varies, so apparently you don't have to do that.
 Some people use a four-digit or four-number pin.
 Other people actually use their own password that they've chosen.
 But I did want to bring it up because many people wrote to say, "Hey, part of this is it's not just these six digits,
 because that would only give you single-factor authentication, something that you have the token in your possession,
 which is generating this number, but you also prepend something that you know being your hopefully secret pin or password."
 Then I had one fun anecdote from someone named Scott in Washington.
 He wanted to keep his last name private.
 I don't blame him.
 You'll see why in a second.
 Washington State or Washington DC?
 Washington DC.
 Okay.
 Regarding hand scanners, you know, the idea we were talking about the biometrics of hands.
 And I mentioned how, for example, I didn't feel that hand sizing would be enough, clearly would be accurate enough
 and distinguishing enough and essentially differentiating enough to use as your sole ID.
 But for example, when I enter level three, I do it with a past card coupled with my hand so that the system is able to say,
 "Oh, this is maybe Steve. Let's see whether this is his right hand. Oh, yes, we believe it and then it unlocks a door."
 So Scott says, "As for your discussion on hand geometry, most of the studies I've seen said it can be sufficient for low-risk physical access.
 If you are using hand geometry for access to a server room, what was the security leading to the door?
 Was this another layer in the physical access controls of the location where the servers were located?"
 I ask because I am reminded of my college days where they used hand geometry for access to the dining halls.
 Those of us who were non-weekend meal plans used to take the cards from friends with similar hand geometry to use at the dining hall.
 Even if the friend ate earlier, I could still use his card to get in and have my own free meal.
 High-fiving people to find somebody who has the same size hand and then say, "Hey, do you have the weekend meal plan?
 Can I borrow your card?" Because the system wouldn't be good enough to know.
 And then finally, we heard from a 12-year-old listener with a note that I got a kick in.
 I love that. Man, I wish my 12-year-old would listen.
 Well, his name is Justin Girard and he says, "Hey Steve, I'm a 12-year-old kid who listens to security now and is quite computer-savvy.
 Since back, my drive in my two-year-old XPS600 just died.
 I don't know what it was, but I just got a BSOD."
 And then he wrote, "The blue screen of death's brother, the black screen of death."
 Ooh, even worse.
 He says, "I scheduled a geek squad visit so they could fix it.
 I was watching what he was doing and he popped a CD into the system.
 Lo and behold, it booted into Spinrite."
 Well, now I have new respect for the geek squad.
 Well, not quite, Leo. Wait until I'm done here.
 It says, "Neil is to say Spinrite fixed it, and I'm now a firm believer and will be getting a copy soon."
 Okay, the bad news is, I've checked with my office.
 The geek squad has no license for Spinrite.
 Oh, I hope that's not.
 Maybe it was as personal for a copy.
 Well, but you can't use a commercial copy.
 They need a commercial license.
 Yeah, we actually have three.
 We have the normal end user license, a single user, and I have no problem if people use it on all the machines they own.
 And as we've heard in the past, if a buddy of yours has their machine die, I'm not going to complain if you go fix his machine.
 Then we have our site license, which says a company is welcome to use it on all of their machines in a single location,
 if they will have four copies.
 The cool thing about that is people can buy one to try it and then buy three more to qualify for the site license.
 It's very nice.
 Obviously, this is all the honor system, but I've been very impressed with how many sets of four I've been seeing sold after we made this more clear during our podcast.
 And then we have what we call an enterprise license, which is 10 copies, and you can't buy 10 over the website because we limit it to four just to prevent there from being any chance for like funky abuse of some sort.
 But if you just write our sales email address on our website, Sue will allow you to purchase 10 copies.
 And an enterprise license allows you to use it on, you know, multiple sites within, you know, a single enterprise.
 And, you know, just for as long as you want to to fix all the machines you have trouble with.
 The problem is, of course, the geek squad has been in trouble before, as you may remember Leo from using unlicensed software.
 Oh, OK, I was going to say, oh, this is not our nerds guys then nerds on site guys. No, they're good. That's legitimate and great guys.
 The game squad is the best by a company of people, right?
 Yes. Yes.
 So anyway, if there's anyone listening with a range of the geek squad, again, I would invite you to upgrade yourself to an enterprise license.
 And then I'd be more than happy to have you guys running around popping your spin right boot CDs into your customers, machines, and fixing their hard drives.
 For spies everywhere.
 Hey, as long as we're talking about nerds on site and before we get to mark my fray, I think we should mention the great people at nerds on site.
 They are not the geek squad.
 In fact, they have a license for spin right, don't they?
 Yes, they do.
 Absolutely legitimate.
 In fact, that's one of the benefits.
 The idea is nerds on site, you still get to be in business for yourself, but you're there there to support you.
 So you're not you're in business for yourself, but not by yourself.
 You focus on what you love to do and you don't have to worry so much about the business side of it.
 They're growing.
 They need more nerds to service their customers worldwide over seven countries, Canada, US, Mexico, England, Australia, South Africa, Bolivia.
 I think a few more countries.
 I'm not even it's not even on this list.
 They look for nerds with all kinds of skills.
 PC and Mac experts, Cisco oracle, you name it.
 They need to fix it technicians website designers, programmers, project managers, even sales, even trainers.
 And of course, security experts, people like the people who listen to this show, Andy virus gurus and more, especially if you're one of those nerds who troubleshoots tears apart and rebuilds your own systems in your own spare time, you might want to contact them.
 They have a University of Nerdology with over 250 different topics, including systems, architecture, design, software development, full on source IT departments to desktop support and soho residential IT services.
 Do it right with nerds on site.
 Oh, I like that.
 I just made that up.
 If you want to know more visit I want to be a nerd.com.
 I want to be a nerd.com.
 You could register for a nerds only meeting in your area today.
 They're great people.
 We give them this security now seal of approval and we thank them for their support of the show.
 I want to be a nerd.
 Should we say hello to Mark Mafre?
 Absolutely.
 We have such a great hour.
 The first thing we asked him, of course, is how he got started in the security business.
 Yeah.
 I mean, yeah, I started roughly about eight or nine years ago.
 My name was started by myself and my co-founder, Frost Bushknack.
 And at the time, I was basically your typical 17 year old teenager, you know, hacking and doing all the things I shouldn't have been doing.
 You were kind of a live hat hacker at the time.
 Yeah, at the time.
 Yeah, definitely.
 And, you know, I had a long story short.
 They kind of wake up call one day when I was 17 that I was, you know, rated by the FBI.
 And that was really the point where, you know, I knew that all this, you know, stuff I had been kind of doing that was really more of, you know, for fun and typical teenager stuff, but on a much larger scale.
 Realize that you know, I need to actually kind of grow up and do something with my life.
 You're kind of lucky you had that call to Jesus.
 Although I have to, I'm thinking of Kevin Paulson and Kevin Mitnick.
 Both got caught as miners and didn't, it weren't, it weren't sufficiently scared, I guess, to stop.
 So you avoided jail time.
 Yeah, I never, I never went to jail or, you know, I was, I've never been arrested or any of that sort of stuff in my life.
 So I think I have some parking tickets.
 Well, and just out of curiosity, what were you doing when you got caught by the FBI?
 I mean, you name and at the time I had been in a couple of different hacking groups.
 And I was a part of pretty much one of the, everybody's familiar with hacking groups, like the Loft, for example.
 And I was a part of one of the hacking groups at the time, which was called Rhino 9.
 And we're pretty much one of the first hacking groups that was focused around security and exploits around Microsoft Windows.
 And really like a Microsoft centric focus around the research and the hacking.
 At the same time, I had also been doing a lot of stuff, everything from, you know, compromising systems to, you know, you name it.
 Name your company or government and.
 Oh goodness, I'm curious.
 At age 17, did you, did you have a different direction sort of marked out for yourself?
 Did you have some interests or were you just sort of like, I mean, I'm what, I'm wondering if EI and this.
 This switching over to doing good replaced some other plans you had, or had you nothing at that point really cast in stone?
 Yeah, there wasn't really plans at the time.
 I mean, the whole hacking to me was really just kind of an escape from an, let's say, interesting home life, if you will.
 So it really just kind of was this train, you know, that I jumped on.
 Everything was happening fast and as far as everything related to hacking and stuff.
 And I really didn't have a thought of where it was all going.
 I mean, you know, I didn't really have a kind of perception of how big some of the stuff was that I was doing at the time.
 And of course, being part of Rhino nine gave you a group identity.
 You are now a member of something and you were like, you know, connected to a whole bunch of guys that were, you know, similar thinking.
 Exactly.
 Exactly.
 And I mean, and so that I just kind of got lost in it all really, you know, there wasn't really any kind of grand scheme or plan or anything else and really got lost in it.
 And that's why I really use the term wake up call, you know, it's pretty much the best way is because I was lost in all hacking and everything I was doing at the time and, you know, being rated, you know, was a wake up call.
 And, you know, I was lucky enough that, you know, after that happened, I had also previously again kind of long story short before I was rated.
 I was actually had ran away from home for about a year and was living all throughout the United States doing hacking and different stuff.
 Like I said, I got back everything caught up to me and I was rated and pretty much made the decision at that point that, you know, high school wasn't for me.
 I really wasn't happy going there, not because I thought I was smarter than everybody or anything like that, but just wasn't kind of what I wanted to be doing at the time.
 So, you know, I worked out a thing with my mom and everybody else that, you know, I want to start working and looked around and, you know, being a 17 year old and whatnot, it wasn't like you just go jump into a security job.
 So I actually got a job at a website design hosting company where, which for us, which I could started and started showing them about the different tools that I had been using, which for kind of more exploit tools or like kind of penetration
 testing tools and, you know, he comes from a software development background.
 If you guys are familiar with the company Berkeley systems and after dark servers and everything.
 That's neat.
 That's great.
 Yeah.
 Remember when the guys actually used to buy screen savers?
 Yeah.
 And the system was the best man flying toasters.
 Oh, yeah.
 Exactly.
 A lawn mower man.
 Yeah.
 He kind of came from that background, you know, very much more structured, standardized, but nothing security specific.
 And we really just got together and, you know, talked about, you know, what we want to do product wise.
 And that's where we came up with our first product and still our most prominent product, which is retina, which is a vulnerability assessment product in the simplest way is that you target.
 Here's all the different computers that exist on your network.
 And retina will give you the output as far as here's all the ways that people can break into the computers and then to how how to actually solve all of those problems, you know, kind of kind of looking at your network like a hacker thinking like a hacker, as we would say.
 And as we started having a lot of success with retina everywhere from we have, I think, roughly about 9,000 customers using retina.
 And you can name some of the biggest, the entire department of defense, which is funny considering I was rated when I was a kid, the entire entire department of defense is actually standardized on using retina as their vulnerability assessment solution.
 So compare retina to something like in map.
 How is retina different?
 What does it do?
 And map is really something more of, you know, it's obviously, as you guys know, it's going to map out all your ports and it's really going to stop at the point.
 Here's the attack surface as far as here's all the services and ports that exist that you could potentially use to exploit retina takes it many steps further, where it'll actually determine what are all the vulnerabilities that exist within those services.
 So it needs to know what exploits are current.
 Exactly.
 Exactly.
 So retinas kept up to date with, you know, what are all the current vulnerabilities for, you know, exactly yesterday being Microsoft patch Tuesday, two of the most critical vulnerabilities, one revolved around Microsoft Exchange and the other with the Microsoft DNS services.
 And retino will be able to remotely rather than just telling you, you have Exchange running, like what an end map would do, retino will tell you that it exchanges there and here's the five different vulnerabilities or misconfigurations that you need to resolve otherwise your system can be compromised.
 And that eventually built out into more of a enterprise solution with a product that we have called REM and REM is what would be used that like a department, you know, of defense or a large, you know, bank or something where you have, you know, 60 different retina scanners all throughout the world
 that are all tunneling back to a central server to give you a consolidated view of. So what essentially REM is like a centralizing management console for distributed retina installs.
 Exactly. It'd be for distributed retina scanning.
 And really the kind of one of the main differences is if you look at most vulnerability assessment, the standalone solutions like retina or like what a NASA's would be or something.
 Those are really just saying, here's your computers, here's some vulnerabilities and that sort of stuff. When you look at like an enterprise or any sort of business level, people really want to be able to look at their vulnerabilities and attack information.
 And they want to be able to report and think about it the same way that they think about their business, you know, so you might want to overlay some sort of a manufacturing business process.
 And then no, what are the potential vulnerabilities and security weaknesses that are a part of that process. And so REM really brings it to that kind of level, not just centralizing all of your vulnerability and attack information, but also giving you all the different kind of analytics
 and stuff that you would need to make sense of this mountain of data.
 I'm grinning over here as I'm listening to you because you've gone totally corporate, Mark.
 Yes. It's paying the bills. So that's great. It is. It is. And it's better than eating tuna fish and jail for three years, even two. I mean, this is true.
 Yeah, Bob is only for so long. So at one point a while ago, when we were talking about you, I was assuming that if you found a vulnerability that you reported under sort of, you know, so-called responsible reporting guidelines.
 Meaning that you secretly tell Microsoft you found something, but you and you'll say something about it on your site, but certainly not divulge any useful information that the bad guys could take advantage of, then are you preemptively protecting
 through some mechanism your customers against that so-called zero day if somebody else took advantage of it? Yeah, exactly. I mean, that was one of the things that for the longest time we've been doing is, you know, the identification of vulnerabilities through
 products like retina. And we really, in doing that, part of it was the research aspect of EI discovering vulnerabilities, you know, which I could definitely expand on. But on the point of, you know, on the protection side, I mean, that really led us to create our blink product, which I think you guys have mentioned recently.
 Yeah, so that's great. Exciting, actually. Exactly. So we have the, we really focus on the kind of vulnerabilities and security from the two perspectives of tell you everything. You know, where do we stand from a security perspective and then actively actually protecting you? And that's where blink comes in.
 I mean, part of it is, if you name, you know, kind of any or run a mill, different, you know, critical Microsoft flaws, we've been discovering so many of them. And we had a lot of customers that were telling us, why don't you guys have a solution that just protects us so that if it takes us three months to patch or something at nature.
 And that's really where blink came about in being able to shield, you know, whether it's desktops or servers from attacks, regardless if you have patches installed or not.
 You know, I mean, everything from, you know, the consumer user who maybe just isn't good about patching. I mean, there's a lot of, there's a lot of problems that haven't been uncovered in consumer security, but at the same time on a business level.
 There's a lot of time that it takes just to roll out patches. And when you have exploits that are either zero days, so there is no patch, or in the case of a lot of times when a patch does come out, there'll be an exploit within a few of hours, whereas most people
 it takes them, you know, typically at least a couple of weeks or more to actually roll out patches within their business. And even when you're doing that, you end up where you're rolling out patches in a rush, which means you don't really get to do all the testing to talk, you know, look at compatibility and that sort of thing.
 So Blink being there is you can take Windows 2000, put Blink on the system, have no patches on that system, put it live on the internet and it won't get compromised. And it's really taking all the research and everything that EI has been learning in the last, you know, eight or nine years about vulnerabilities and research and putting it into a product to protect people.
 And, you know, I think probably the most exciting thing for me is, you know, we've been doing that on the business side and as far as selling Blink to corporations and a lot of the same retina customers.
 But even more exciting is the stuff that we're doing on the consumer side, because if you look at, you know, still to this day, my mom and everybody else's mom that are worrying about, you know, protecting their individual desk, you know, consumer desktop.
 They're still heavily dependent on stuff like antivirus, which just isn't cut out for the types of attacks that people are facing today.
 So, so your mom is your mom is no longer worrying about you. She's now worrying about what she's now worrying about what you used to do.
 Is Blink is it a firewall? Is it a patch program? How is it protecting me?
 Yeah, Blink's actually handful layers of protection. Is it a protocol proxy, Mark? Yeah, actually, there's a few things. So we do have that your standard, you know, application, firewalling, you know, what what program shouldn't communicate to the Internet.
 We all know the problem with that is that my mom's going to say yes to every program or note every program and she's going to break things or open herself up to attack.
 So the application firewalling, you know, which is, which was really the first extension in security beyond antivirus.
 We have that within Blink. At the same time, you can have Blink. You can turn off the application firewall and we're still going to protect you from every attack.
 And the way that we do that is through a few levels. We do do the network based protocol analysis. So in the case of remote exploits over RPC or something of that nature, we'll be analyzing the protocol and looking generically for buffer overflows, integer overflow,
 any sorts of malformed requests and that sort of stuff. Beyond just the network layer itself, we also have hooks into the application layer with application specific plugins for stuff like Internet Explorer and Outlook.
 We're looking for more application vulnerabilities. And then we also do protection within the actual kernel itself, hooking various APIs and looking for kind of common types of bad behavior.
 And then the kind of last part rounding it out is the, what we call kind of application protection, which is our, you know, kind of generic buffer overflow and related type of technology.
 And the important part is that, you know, with Blink, you know, some people might say it truly is everything in the kitchen sink.
 It's be hard pressed to find another host space security software that does everything that Blink can do.
 But I think one of the kind of feats of what we're able to do is that we're able to do all that with still using less memory than the Maccafees and semantics and everybody else and having a better performance because it's always the balance of, you can really truly protect
 a system, but if it means that now my mom is having a delay on her Yahoo Games coming up, she's not going to be a happy person.
 She's going to start disabling things. And that's the real world that a lot of security people kind of forget is the usability aspects and stuff.
 Do you still recommend using a fire antivirus or any spyware along with Blink or do you not?
 No, one of the, one of the last layers or one of the last couple of layers of Blink beyond preventing attacks that come from vulnerabilities is Blink actually has a full blown anti-malware, which is antivirus and anti-spyware solution.
 So you really don't need any other security software?
 You know, you truly don't. And even on the antivirus side itself is that not only are we doing your classical keeping signatures up to date, looking for signatures of virus, but there's also a sandbox technology, which will take it.
 Take an executable, emulate it in a virtual environment so we can see what's the behavior of the executable. And if we see the executable is going to connect to an IRC server in Russia and take botnet commands, we know without having a signature or not that that's a malicious piece of code.
 Yeah, that's pretty obvious, you know, and so there's a lot of stuff like that, you know, because it's the same thing on the viruses is you're always, you know, only as good as your signature update.
 We all worry about it. We all worry about zero day attacks today because there's no patches, but we should really think of malware as the same way as that.
 There is malware every day and hundreds of them where it is a weak delay or longer.
 So you're not looking at signatures at all. It's all heuristic.
 Yeah, we do. We do have a signature capability and the reason that we added that is a lot of security companies. They love the tout, the fact that they're very generic and all this other sort of stuff.
 It's pretty much a kind of that sliding scale of the more generic you become the higher chance that you could break valid applications or, you know, you start, you start having a problem with false positives.
 Exactly. So we try to keep the balance of we want to be as generic as possible, but I would never come out and say, you know, you never need to update blink again or something like that because I think that's kind of crazy talk.
 But the other reason, you know, being able to react in a case where we didn't generically protect being able to react with the signatures is an important thing to have there.
 I can safely say if you look at Microsoft attacks in 2006, I think we had to do an after the fact kind of signature, maybe two, three times, which is a pretty good track record.
 And the other important thing of on really on a corporate side of needing to do signatures is because if you're doing everything generically, you can't differentiate on a threat level.
 So you might have a hundred events that say there was a, you know, generic RPC attack, but it's important to know was the RPC attack due to a worm, a script kitty, a targeted attacker.
 You need to be able to make sense of when you have thousands of attacks that are coming into your console.
 What's the needle in the haystack that you should care about that you should be responding to?
 Again, that's where ram on the management side comes in to making sense of that.
 I really like the architecture you have because this protocol level filtering means that if something did happen to get through, you can look at how it was that it got past your filters and strengthen them in a way that closes not only that particular instance, but all kinds of other latent instances
 that you haven't actually encountered yet.
 Exactly. And that, I mean, specifically what you said is actually how we went through the design process of Blink, where we sat down before figuring out do we want to do network based or protocol or anything.
 A lot of security products, they tend to pick a philosophy without analyzing the data set.
 And we looked at, we sat down and we looked at about five, six thousand different windows related vulnerabilities, not just Microsoft, but it could be Apache running on Windows.
 And looking at the five, six thousand vulnerabilities, we tried to boil down what were all the common characteristics that existed that allowed the system to be compromised through this flaw.
 Not just the classes of attacks like buffer overflows, but however protocols used, maybe RPC or HTTP, how are they manipulated in a way.
 And you really found that looking at these five, six thousand vulnerabilities that there truly was maybe a few hundred different commonalities between them.
 And that was really the first effort of making sure that Blink is looking for these things generically.
 And it's an ongoing process of when there's new attacks and analyzing, was there other layers.
 One of the good things about Blink is not just are we doing the network and application and everything, but typically if you take something that was very popular and bad like a Sasser worm, Blink actually stopped that with three different layers of protection.
 So it wasn't just that we lucked out that one of our rules caught it, but a lot of times there's multiple rules within Blink that'll catch most of the attacks that exist today.
 Let's use a recent example, the animated cursor flaw.
 And you knew about this long before Microsoft admitted to it or patched it, you knew about it in October, I think.
 And I want to talk a little bit later on about this whole issue of when do you tell the public, when do you, how long do you hold off?
 I know this is a hot book for you and a lot of security researchers.
 But let's ask specifically about Blink and the anti-cursor flaw.
 Did you put a patch in Blink?
 Because I know you had a patch before Microsoft did, or do you not worry about that?
 Yeah, with that flaw specifically, Blink itself was already protecting without an update or anything.
 There was a couple layers that were protecting.
 We do some stuff on the kind of what we do with the network side of analyzing protocols and how they're behaving.
 We do similar stuff on the file system side, and we caught it with one layer there.
 And then also we have a system that's generically looking for buffer overflows.
 So if we see, you know, you're trying to run code from some crazy place in heap or off the stack or whatever it might be.
 We'll generically flag and prevent those things.
 That's different than DEP, right?
 I mean, and I presume more robust than DEP.
 DEP breaks so many things.
 Exactly.
 DEP's implemented different than what we're actually doing.
 Because we do, rather than something like DEP, they're just super generically looking,
 "Hey, is there code executing off a place that it shouldn't be?"
 We actually do a little bit of intelligence on looking at what types of code and this and that,
 because you have stuff like Java, for example, that does actually do things
 that will make it look like you're executing code off the stack or whatever it might be, you know?
 And in those cases, you can have false positives.
 So we do a lot more intelligence around when somebody's case is triggered doing a second step of,
 "Okay, is this really a bad thing or just an application that is acting a bit funny, if you will?"
 And that's the same in the case of the ANI flaw in the sense that, you know,
 the two different layers we were protecting without updating.
 So for a consumer, it's great because your antivirus doesn't really stop ANI
 and you don't have a patch at that point, whereas Blink, without a signature update or anything,
 is already preventing the attack.
 That's definitely been for a consumer around the corporate level.
 Especially if you're talking, you know, you have 2,000 systems or something.
 At that point again, there is no patch, so you're protected without an update.
 But even when the patch comes out, it might take you a few weeks to roll it out or test it.
 If you're in the, you know, financial world, you have to do all the change control documentation,
 which also creates delays.
 So what we ended up doing, which we were asking earlier on,
 we did release a third-party patch for the ANI bug.
 And what that was is we actually wrote a specific code fix specific to that flaw.
 So this is a completely separate thing than Blink.
 The reason we did that is that Blink is something that at the time,
 we do have the free version now, basically.
 And at that time, it was kind of really, what could we get most people's attention on
 to download and protect themselves?
 And at that, it was really more, I mean, that's kind of on a business decision at the time.
 If we could try to tell the reporters, "Hey, we got this Blink thing."
 But reporters are all hit with, you know, 10 companies that are saying,
 "My product protects and my product," you know, and that kind of thing.
 So the third-party patch thing is a lot easier away.
 And we kind of use the third-party patch, you know, the first screen that you got was,
 "You can do this one-off patch which will protect you from this single ANI flaw,
 or you can go download Blink which will protect you from ANI and every single other Microsoft flaw
 and zero-day that has existed, basically."
 Boy, if I were in the security software business, I would not like you very much right now.
 In fact, I was just going to say that I want to make sure our listeners heard that
 and that we make sure that, like, we heard it.
 Do you guys have a free version of Blink that does a lot of this?
 Yeah, literally, we have the marketing guys will probably shoot me for saying this,
 but we have Blink, which is the exact same thing that we sell to companies all throughout the world.
 For a lot of money, right?
 For a lot of money, yeah.
 Competitive, obviously, but a lot of money all throughout the world.
 We literally took that exact same technology and we made it a personal consumer version,
 so we changed some of the defaults, the installation process,
 make it a little bit more friendly, but the exact same kind of under-the-hood technology
 and it's basically free for years to catch for consumer use.
 Anybody can go get it and download it and everything I've been describing with the zero-day protection,
 the whole antivirus system.
 We have so many people right now that are renewals are coming up for Symantec and McAfee
 and they're all downloading Blink.
 We still have work to do because, again, Blink was really first meant for companies to be using,
 and so it's got great protection and the current interface,
 we're looking to kind of simplify a little bit more and that sort of thing,
 make it flow and be a little bit easier for consumers,
 but our first and ultimate goal is to really just make the out of the box
 where the compatibility is good and as far as what it works with and those sort of things.
 One of the ways that we do that and the kind of catch as the American way goes,
 there's nothing really free, so our catch on free is basically that any of the attacks
 or vulnerabilities that are being discovered on our computer
 are sent back to EI anonymously and the two uses of that for us
 is number one to improve any bugs, so if there's a spike in Yahoo! messenger or something,
 we know there's definitely a bug, something going wrong there, maybe a false positive,
 and then number two is to figure out what are the, maybe something that we're
 generically protecting with our buffer overflow system that we should have
 a network intrusion prevention rule for and that sort of thing,
 and basically all that goes back into the product for the consumers also.
 Very nice, and so is Blink somehow updating itself during this first year free period also?
 Yeah, so Blink, you can set it to, because the last component of Blink,
 which I didn't even mention is there's actually our retina product,
 which I was describing earlier, the 9,000 whatever customers,
 where you can identify all your vulnerabilities, we actually threw that in the Blink,
 so there's a full blown vulnerability assessment solution within Blink,
 the engine's been slimmed down as far as interface and that sort of thing,
 but there's about 3,000 plus vulnerability audits that Blink will also do,
 and so I'll tell you what patches you're missing, where to go get the patches,
 anything that's potentially misconfigured, one of the eye-opening statistics that we saw,
 all the anonymous Blink data comes back to actually one of our REM systems,
 and one of the interesting statistics we saw is that most home users,
 they're getting better at making sure they stay up to date with Microsoft patches,
 as far as the timeline of when their Windows update is patching their system and whatnot,
 but one of the things that we saw is that the greatest number of vulnerabilities
 are actually the non-Microsoft vulnerabilities, and the vulnerabilities within iTunes
 or Adobe or QuickTime or Flash, and the list goes on and on,
 and one of the things in 2006 that I was kind of preaching at as many conferences as I could,
 is this idea, a very simple idea, but it's more than the Microsoft world,
 and really the simplest way to compromise most consumers and most companies these days
 are actually through non-Microsoft vulnerabilities,
 it's in the corporate world, your Veritas backup software having vulnerabilities
 or your IBM laptops that have an active XFLAW, the list goes on and on,
 but the problem is that if you look at what exploits are being created,
 for example, the open source exploit platforms like Metasploit,
 they do cover non-Microsoft, and they come out with exploits just as fast for non-Microsoft flaws
 as they do for Microsoft, but if you ask the average person in the IT world,
 what did you do when the Veritas flaw came out?
 Did you have a patch Tuesday?
 There is no patch Tuesdays or quick responses or anything else,
 and the consumer world, it's even worse because, again, the average consumer,
 they don't understand when iTunes pops up and says,
 "Hey, there's a new 42-meg installer that you need to do."
 They're like, "Well, why would they do that?"
 'Cause my music's playing fine, and I don't want to wait for that thing to download
 and whatever else, and there's a real problem with most non-Microsoft applications,
 you know, like some of the ones I listed where they're not good at separating features
 versus security updates and also the way that they inform their users
 and keep that soft update, so I think that's probably one of the more eye-opening components
 of Blink is the vulnerability assessment piece on really showing you
 that even if you're running Windows Update every night,
 you're not actually secure, there truly is other things that people can leverage
 to compromise you, and that's another thing that's a part of Blink that's there,
 and I mean, you can't find another host-based product that does that,
 and that part's free, part of the free version also.
 - Well, I was supposed to convince you to write a Blink for Mac by a chance,
 or Linux. - We toy with the idea.
 I mean, obviously that all comes down to the business side on the--
 - And you guys are Windows experts.
 I mean, that's your-- - Yeah.
 - So what this is also saying is that, in terms of this application vulnerability issue,
 Windows itself is really no longer the lowest hanging fruit.
 There are now, because Microsoft has been effective with Windows Update,
 with Patch Tuesday, with over the course of the last five years,
 slowly and painfully educating users, that message really has gotten through,
 but no one has really yet awoken up to the fact that there's all these other things
 which are trying to enhance themselves by being network aware, like backup software
 that now wants to be on the net, which is like the next round of vulnerabilities
 for everyone to deal with.
 - It is, and it's an interesting thing.
 One of the things I tell people is, I look at the start of Microsoft security
 as really happening back in about 1999 or so,
 and that was where I personally found some of the first remotely exploitable Microsoft flaws
 and then years later we saw stuff like Code Red and whatnot,
 and really in the last eight or nine years,
 yeah, I kind of started at the beginning of Microsoft's thing, really,
 but in the last eight or nine years, Microsoft has progressed greatly,
 and they do have one of the best security responses,
 or not just response, but really security processes in general
 of how they build their software, how they try to educate users and that sort of thing.
 In that last eight or nine years, as Microsoft has pushed the bar
 and to make their software more secure, researchers and also just bad guys
 that are trying to exploit systems, they've also improved and added a lot of skills
 and basically things to the toolbox, if you will,
 and if you were kind of put that on a graph, if you will,
 you'd see Microsoft and the average researcher just climbing and doing better,
 but you can label almost any other software company out there,
 and they're pretty much a flat line because most other software companies
 have never had an incentive or a reason to focus on security.
 Microsoft's themselves, as much as it might be out of the kindness of their heart or something,
 and we all know that businesses revolve around the bottom line of money and everything else,
 and if you're not losing money based on having insecure software,
 you're not going to spend the money to make more secure software
 versus adding new features to stay competitive.
 And I really think that there is a time coming.
 I mean, we saw one of the first non-Microsoft worms targeting semantics antivirus,
 and I think we're going to see a lot more of that in the future.
 And frankly, while I completely agree with you that Microsoft has finally got it,
 look how long it took.
 I mean, look at an incredible inertia they had.
 Exactly.
 Not to get it for so long.
 Yeah.
 I mean, yep.
 And the interesting part, you know, the kind of the more than the Microsoft world,
 usually the way that I end up, you know, because everybody usually is surprised.
 They're like, "Wow, Mark Mayphrase, you know, saying all these nice things about Microsoft."
 And I do mean it all day.
 They do truly have the best practice around security than any other software company.
 I'd say that time and time again.
 The thing that worries me is not just that the attack surface is shifting
 and will shift to non-Microsoft flaws, but it also worries me with all the marketing now
 that Microsoft does around things like Vista and Office 2007 and related.
 It really worries me about people becoming complacent and just kind of a little bit idle
 as far as making sure that we keep Microsoft on the path of writing secure software.
 And the way that I usually like to end that kind of presentation is I'll do a demonstration
 of you can basically take Windows Vista, which is, you know, the most secure thing ever
 for Microsoft in Office 2007, which also went through the full, you know,
 security development lifecycle and everything.
 And I'll actually do a remote hacking demonstration on showing a malformed Office file
 that then leads to code execution and uses a local Vista kernel privilege escalation
 so that you go from the local unprivileged user to running code in the kernel.
 It pretty much shatters all layers of Vista and Office 2007 security.
 And the reason that that's important is because there definitely isn't an end
 and I don't think you'll see a big tapering off of Microsoft vulnerabilities.
 And really, I think the thing that will come to a point on is that when it comes to Microsoft
 in security, I think we'll see that even if you're doing everything possible
 that you can as a software company to make your software secure,
 there's still going to be flaws.
 And there really doesn't need to be that many flaws a year to, you know,
 kind of cause the same, you know, negative aspect on Microsoft
 or really negative aspects on people's computers and networks.
 If you think about it, most businesses, if they were to have, you know,
 even once a month or every couple of months, a major critical vulnerability
 that they're worrying about, that's going to keep them busy.
 And when you put it in that terms, you're really talking about maybe 12 vulnerabilities a year.
 And when you look at the entire Microsoft attack surface between the operating system
 and all the common applications to say that there's not going to be 12 mistakes a year,
 this kind of, I don't think we'll ever kind of get to that point.
 So there's always going to be those problems every couple of months
 where you do need to rush out, you do need to patch.
 But, you know, again, I can't say enough on that.
 Microsoft has come a long way.
 And the last point on the VISTA since I was talking about it is,
 VISTA has a lot of security improvements, but they're really towards improvements
 around Microsoft code itself.
 If you look at something, for example, like they added the address-based randomization,
 which is a good way to help prevent some buffer overflows.
 They added that to VISTA.
 And one of the things that's interesting though is most of that is focused
 on Microsoft applications, so one of the flaws we found recently affects Java,
 which I think a couple people still use.
 And in the case of the Java flaw, you can be running VISTA
 with all the latest patches, everything enabled.
 And if you go to the wrong website, we can compromise you through a Java flaw,
 which is, again, another example of the kind of non-Microsoft world.
 And one last point, I'm going to get off Microsoft,
 but one last point is that the two vulnerabilities that we found,
 the vulnerability within VISTA itself, the kernel,
 and the vulnerability within Office 2007, the most eye-opening aspect
 was that the vulnerable code only exists in Office 2007
 and only exists in VISTA, which means these aren't two legacy bugs that God missed.
 Yeah, exactly, it was new code that was added.
 That to me was even more eye-opening than, hey, we found the VISTA flaw,
 but that it was actually new code and that kind of thing.
 Let me, let's not get off Microsoft quite yet, because there is an issue
 that comes up with security researchers all the time,
 and it's an important philosophical issue to reveal or not to reveal
 when you find a security flaw.
 Yeah, I mean, there's definitely levels.
 And I mean, for me, there's a lot of terms that should just be killed off
 like full disclosure and responsible disclosure,
 because everybody means things different.
 So to me, kind of how you should handle vulnerabilities and what you should do to it,
 what we do at EIS, when we discover vulnerability,
 we need to take it to the point of understanding everything we can
 about the vulnerability, knowing that a vendor isn't always going to get it right
 and isn't always going to want to tell you the truth.
 So we'll research it, and it could take us a month that we're researching this thing
 and figuring out all the aspects, but at that point that you feel comfortable
 that you have as much of an understanding as you can,
 at that point you should be reporting it to the vendor,
 and you should be giving them the time that it takes to fix the flaw.
 In other words, reveal it to the vendor, but not to the public right away.
 Exactly.
 I mean, you should never really reveal it to reveal details,
 like actual specific details.
 You should never reveal to the public until a patch has been created.
 The problem comes in the play is that in the case of companies like Microsoft,
 they can end up taking sometimes close to a year to actually create a patch,
 and they have all these crazy reasons of why that is.
 To me, there's really no excuse to take a year,
 and the problem that comes into play with that is that for a company like EI,
 I mean, we're a business, and the last thing in the world
 from all sorts of perspectives that we want to do is release a zero day
 or something that doesn't help anybody.
 I can definitely see why a lot of independent researchers do come to the point of frustration
 where it has taken so long for Microsoft that they do just want to tell people about it,
 because especially in the current climate where one of the things we're almost worried about
 is zero day attacks, the longer Microsoft takes to patch a certain flaw,
 the more chances that the flaw is already known within the underground
 as being used to exploit systems.
 And the ANI vulnerability is one of the perfect examples of that,
 where it was actually found by a security company, Determina,
 and the second ANI flaw, not the EI one,
 was actually found by a security company and then took months from Microsoft
 and we saw it come out in the wild and in a zero day fashion,
 and that really again goes back to there isn't a lot of time.
 You got to make a good patch, it needs to go through QA and stuff,
 but I think we could all safely say that a year is probably too long.
 And again, it comes down that there's independent researchers
 who there really is no, there's nothing illegal,
 you can go release as many zero days as you want tomorrow,
 and that's a whole other debate about laws,
 but there's nothing illegal about releasing a new flaw tomorrow without telling a vendor.
 And for a lot of independent researchers, there really is no motivation
 to work with the vendor because it's a very painful process.
 The vendor wants to minimize everything they can about the flaw,
 whether that's saying what's right or wrong or what's real or not,
 it still is a marketing problem for them.
 They want to minimize everything, so there's a lot of BS that a lot of researchers have to go through,
 and I can't blame a lot of independent researchers for not wanting to have to go through that
 for six months with Microsoft or some companies out there that are even worse,
 like the oracles of the world.
 And ultimately, you guys, security researchers never get anything back really for the trouble,
 except maybe a little mention in some post-script notes somewhere
 at the bottom of an announcement of thanks to so-and-so for reporting this.
 Exactly.
 I mean, for independent researchers, I mean, you get some recognition,
 you post your advisor on the mailing list or something,
 so maybe if you're looking for a job or you want to get noticed by an EI
 or somebody like that.
 But yeah, otherwise, it's a lot of time without really any value,
 and that's why you see a lot of independent researchers that not only are they actually
 just not simply telling Microsoft, but they're not actually telling anybody.
 They're actually selling the exploits to third parties.
 In some cases, it could be legitimate.
 Third parties, companies like iDefense or the tipping point initiative and stuff like that.
 But in a lot of cases, these things are being sold, in some cases,
 to the bad guys, if you will, that are using zero-day to couple it with whatever scam
 of the month that they're doing as far as a phishing attack or something of that nature.
 We saw with the ANI zero-day that within about a week of it becoming kind of a public thing
 that there was actually already websites that were hosting it,
 and they had malware attached to it to where if you went to that website,
 it would actually scan looking for credit card information on your system to be sent back.
 That was all in a very short period of time.
 That kind of gets back to us saying on Blink is that the attacks now are very different,
 that the bad guys aren't hoping you accidentally run an EXE from an attachment.
 They're hoping that you go to the wrong webpage or that you're using Microsoft Office
 and you open a Word document or whatever,
 because they're taking advantage of vulnerabilities within software flaws
 much more these days than the kind of human, for lack of a better word, stupidity or whatnot.
 One of the things, as I'm sure you know, that early on, I was really waving my arms
 around about was that Microsoft for years kept shipping Windows systems with open services.
 With exposed services.
 So I was early on the bandwagon trying to get people to run personal firewalls
 and more recently being behind a router which is inherently giving you
 stateful connection protection.
 Exactly.
 So it really is the case, first of all, finally with Service Pack 2,
 having its own firewall running by default, thank God, and everything since then,
 and even more so with so many residential users now being behind routers,
 the nature of attacks has really changed to one where you're counting on users
 without and do something to get themselves infected rather than having just a system
 sitting there doing nothing that is going to automatically pick up a blaster worm
 over its internet connection.
 Exactly.
 I mean, you're totally right.
 I mean, the attacks have shifted from being the kind of network-based,
 the sasters, the blasters and those kind of things to really targeting a lot more
 of the kind of client applications which to me is a kind of scarier proposition
 because if you're targeting, you know, the outlook vulnerability, the office
 vulnerabilities or something of that nature, a Skype vulnerability,
 which we'll get to in a minute, no, I'm just kidding.
 But if you're targeting, if you're targeting those kind of application vulnerabilities,
 especially in the business world, most average companies, they're very dependent
 on perimeter security, you know, they put up their firewall and they kind of have,
 you know, the same thing that we used to say back in, you know, the 90s of you got your
 castle and the moat and everything like that.
 And most businesses are still that way.
 You know, maybe they have antivirus on the desktop is about it.
 But when it comes to these client application vulnerabilities,
 the easiest way to really do some damage and get some data out of a company,
 you know, is to send the Microsoft Word Zero Day to the HR department at a large
 company and the lady in HR opens it.
 Word disappears.
 She's none the wiser.
 Now I have that computer compromised.
 Now that I'm on the inside of your network, I take the remote attack like the DNS
 Zero Day to target your active directory server.
 And now I've compromised that and I can do anything I want to your company.
 And this all happens within a few hours.
 And the big problem there, again, is because we're not really protecting the
 insides of our network.
 You know, we've put up all these walls around it.
 Yeah.
 And as one would expect the attack shift that, well, if there's walls everywhere,
 I'm going to go ahead and find different ways either kind of under or over what not.
 And that's what we're seeing with all the app, you know, the kind of client application
 attacks and file format attacks.
 You know, I generally, it seems that if I look back, go sort of for like from one
 crusade to another.
 And I'm sure you were aware of my raw sockets crusade.
 That's right.
 Before the launch of XP, trying not to let Microsoft send XP out with raw sockets.
 And of course, it took a couple of years and two service packs before they finally
 you know, pull that out.
 Now the thing that I drive security now listeners and especially Leo crazy with
 is I'm just, I'm so against browser scripting because it's just such a problem.
 I mean, you're, if you're scripting in your browser, you've enabled your client,
 your browser client to run code from any site you visit.
 Yep.
 Exactly.
 I mean, and how is that ever going to be safe?
 Yeah.
 And it honestly is really headed for the worst.
 I mean, the, I mean, you guys know as much as anybody that the browser is becoming,
 might as well be becoming the operating system almost itself.
 You know, Google and everybody else has their way.
 And as that happens, more, it means that you're going to have so much more of this kind of
 web enabled content and stuff and really all that ends up doing, whether it's active scripting
 or flash or what's the new Microsoft silver light, I believe it's called.
 That's right.
 As all these things are added to the browser to make the browser kind of this more rich
 experience and really to make it like a win 32 app and everything else.
 The more that they do that, the more that you create, increase the ability, the attack
 surface or really the number of areas where an attacker can supply malformed code and
 potentially compromise, you know, the system and whatnot.
 So, I mean, that is almost, you know, from a browser perspective, there's kind of no
 end in sight as far as, you know, the quote unquote browser vulnerabilities.
 But I really think a lot of that is you can almost say there's also no end in sight on
 operating system vulnerabilities.
 And it's really a byproduct of the browser itself becoming much more of this platform,
 you know what I mean, that everything's starting to live in and exist in.
 Right.
 And again, it's not so much that things on the outside are any longer able to come in because,
 as you said, there is good border security.
 Now it's things, you know, on the inside, things people do that invite the bad guys in
 across your border.
 Yeah.
 And we see that.
 I mean, if the attacks like we've seen that have come across stuff like MySpace, for example,
 you know, embedding things within that and then using that to do different browser attacks.
 And, you know, that sort of stuff kind of goes on and on.
 And I think one of the interesting aspects that people haven't really talked much or did
 too much forward thinking on is one of the scary aspects of security.
 As we move into kind of this, everything's hosted online, everything's, you know, managed
 services and software as a service and whatnot.
 As everything becomes more hosted on the web, it becomes actually harder for a third party
 independent researchers to actually audit products at that point for vulnerabilities.
 If you take good, for example, what Google is doing with a lot of the kind of, you know,
 basically trying to bring something like Microsoft Office and a web browser experience.
 You can't really sit there and test that experience for vulnerabilities because when you're doing
 the testing, you're actually doing it with a third party server, which at that point becomes
 illegal for you to actually do that.
 A lot of the software companies are excited by that idea.
 I know some of the security guys at Microsoft love what Microsoft is doing with Microsoft
 live because they're like, if the software's on a web server, you can't really mess with
 it as much in the legal manner.
 So we shouldn't see as many flaws.
 The bad thing is that the white hat, the good researchers, the guys at places like EI, yeah,
 it does make it harder for us to look for flaws because we're not going to legally interact
 with a Microsoft web server or Google.
 But the real bad guys who don't care about laws, they're still going to be looking for
 flaws and they're still going to be finding them.
 So in those cases, it kind of cripples some of the good researchers and the thing that
 becomes kind of compounded by it all is that when you have all these kind of web-enabled
 and online services and stuff, it makes it where I don't need to find, if I find that
 vulnerability within Outlook, for example, I can target a user here or a user there.
 If I find the vulnerability within Outlook Live or whatnot, some web-based version, that
 means now I have the potential to compromise a system that now houses every user of Outlook.
 And so the kind of value of an attack becomes much greater as everything turns into hosted
 web servers and everything else.
 So that's going to be interesting.
 You know, one thing that you're touching on brings up an issue that I was going to ask
 out and that is the work you've been doing and its potential collision with the DMCA.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 From the one good thing out, the DMCA does actually have a provision that if you're doing reverse
 engineering because of doing security research and looking for vulnerabilities, that is actually
 legal and protected.
 A lot of people blur the lines and get up in arms on DMCA.
 It's really more around people that are defeating the copyright restrictions and stuff like that,
 which is what it's meant for.
 But you can go and take Internet Explorer and reverse engineer and print out all the assembly
 code and do whatever you want as far as looking for flaws.
 And there's nothing illegal about doing that.
 But like I said, if it's hosted on a web server, you can't really sit there and throw different
 attacks at it all day because that does become legal, depending on how it's done.
 So I think that'll be kind of an interesting shift and change in how we're doing vulnerability
 research, how companies are protecting from those sort of things.
 Some benefits is that if there is a flaw within a web service, unlike something like Outlook
 where you have to now push a patch out through Windows Update and hope everybody out there
 with a web enabled stuff, you change it on your cluster of servers and now everybody's protected.
 So it does make some things on security actually a lot easier and a lot better.
 But you're right, by centralizing all of that and notice in an instance like, for example,
 Google Mail where you also have everybody's data in addition.
 So you've got centralized repository of data and if you're able to get into that server
 and farm the data, we're talking about the potential for spectacular disasters.
 Definitely.
 I think we haven't even began to see how that goes.
 I mean, you look at the data theft that we all worry about today when TJX or somebody like that loses
 customer data.
 I mean, those things are obviously bad and if somebody does SQL injection and gets customer data,
 it's a bad thing.
 But when you talk about now, we're going to have most all home users that all their data is sitting
 online at a third party.
 Number one, there's a lot of weird privacy things.
 I always joke with friends.
 I'm pretty sure the NSA started Google because that's the best way to spy on everybody.
 But not only is the privacy stuff there, but if those servers are compromised, now you're talking
 about instant access to everybody's data.
 And it's similar to when we make analogies about the kind of real world, if you will,
 to sliver space about in the real world.
 I could go door to door trying to breaking into a house in sliver space.
 It's easier because I can sit from one computer in the middle of China and attack thousands
 of systems.
 And then when you start talking about it moving to this kind of web service type stuff, now
 I don't even need to attack a thousand systems.
 Now I'm the one guy sitting in China that's attacking one server somewhere.
 And now I get those thousands of systems, virtual systems, if you will, instantaneously.
 Yes, when they come over and hook up to that central location.
 Exactly.
 Exactly.
 It's sort of, I mean, you don't think of it this way, of course, but in the same way that
 IRC servers are used to collect zombies, you have the same sort of networking model where
 a whole bunch of browser clients are all connected to a central server.
 And you just send them all a vulnerable active X control, which they'll happily instantiate
 and talk to go.
 Exactly.
 So like I said, I think that will be an interesting thing to see how it all kind of progresses
 and plays out.
 What do you think about Windows versus Mac security?
 Yeah, I mean, a lot of some of the stuff in Vista, like address-based randomization and
 the whole UAC annoying stuff and everything.
 I mean, some of it's just real bad knock-offs of what has been existed in the Unix world
 forever.
 Sure.
 You know, especially on the kind of user experience side of security, the main thing that it still
 comes down to is, you know, I've personally, I think the Mac is great.
 I use it for all my music recording and all that, but from a security perspective is that,
 you know, Windows still is the 90, whatever percent of what the world is running on.
 So you're always going to have more Microsoft vulnerabilities.
 The thing I think is very sad about Apple is that Apple doesn't write any more secure
 or necessarily worse, but any more secure software than Microsoft or anybody.
 Apple's code is just as bad as anybody else's, that there is that kind of the thought for
 most people that Apple's and Macs are more secure.
 Mostly again, it's because people in the research community, if I'm going to spend, you know,
 three weeks looking for a bug, I'm not going to do it in Apple because there's not as much
 value compared to Windows.
 Well, and you guys are also big in the enterprise space and, you know, enterprise is PCs running
 Windows.
 Exactly.
 So, you know, I mean, the part of this game, you know, being sad about Apple is that they
 really are at a point right now that if they truly started to focus on security, they could
 actually get security right before people realize that they're actually not as secure as all
 the ads and all the kind of the culture around it, the blogs and everything else would lead
 people to believe, you know, and they do pretty much the same mistakes that, you know, Microsoft
 was doing eight, nine years ago where it's security is more of a marketing problem.
 You know, the way that they do updates and the way that they do the notifications is very
 flawed.
 And, you know, we've found a handful of Apple like QuickTime and whatnot flaws in the past.
 And again, it was very much the kind of culture of Microsoft, you know, eight or nine years
 ago and stuff.
 Wow.
 Well, of course, it's no surprise that the people think that the Mac is more secure than
 Windows because we see those two guys on our TV sets now talking about how, you know,
 It must be.
 Yeah.
 The ads say so.
 One guy's able to get sick and the other one can't get sick and it's like, okay.
 Yeah.
 I thought that was kind of accurate.
 Yeah.
 Oh, yeah.
 I mean, I kind of equated that ad to, you know, when Oracle came out and, you know, did
 their whole unbreakable campaign and Oracle went from really a target to everybody went
 after Oracle for that.
 Right.
 Again, there's a different value thing because Oracle is actually, you know, the right there
 with SQL number one database stuff.
 So there's value in finding Oracle flaws as far as the impact and what you can do and
 number of people affected with the Mac that statement still isn't true.
 But if they're, if they become more successful as a business in the sense of gaining more
 market share and everything else, they will become more of a target.
 And my real hope for him right now is that they pretty much are untainted.
 Mac has a great perception of being secure and being better and all this stuff.
 And if they really started now focusing on security by the time that they get to the
 point where they have the market share that will cause them to be a target, they could
 be secure.
 And the whole perception that exists now could actually be a reality and it could be a great
 thing for them.
 The part that is just on a random personal crusade level frustrating for me is most of
 the people that Apple still don't seem to get that from a security perspective.
 They're actually kind of drinking their own cool aid without actually doing some fact
 checking.
 Well, I hope they're listening right now.
 Hey, one last question.
 Yes.
 Yeah.
 Please listen, guys.
 Wake up.
 Wake up.
 Blink is not available right now for Vista.
 Do you have plans to make it available for Vista?
 Yeah.
 We're shooting right now towards the end of the year, basically.
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 And Leo, you know, no security conscious user is going to be using Vista now anyway.
 So I don't know if that's true.
 Is that really true?
 Would you say that's true?
 Don't use Vista.
 If you're worried about security?
 No, I wouldn't say don't use there.
 If you have Windows XP today from a security perspective, there's not that much compelling
 stuff that I would say upgrade because of security.
 If there's some features that you think are interesting, I don't know what those would
 be, but if there's features you think you think are interesting in Vista, then maybe
 you want to upgrade because of that, but it's you saying it's important to get a macro.
 You said an important thing, which is don't upgrade to Vista for security.
 Yeah, I think that Mike, one of the interesting things with Vista in general is that there
 really isn't a lot of compelling features to upgrade to Vista versus the XP.
 I mean, most of the stuff is the same organ, very much a catch up to the math.
 Things like UAC doesn't make a difference.
 No, things like UAC, I mean, things like UAC, there's even a lot of internal stuff at Microsoft
 where there's--
 Microcinevage has been saying that.
 Oh, yeah, it's an annoyance thing.
 It has no real value.
 I don't think you should run out and purchase Vista because you want to be more secure.
 That's not the reason.
 If you're buying a new computer and it comes with Vista, by all means go for it.
 It's definitely not less secure.
 But the $100, whatever dollars it is to get Vista to do it based on security images, there's
 not enough.
 Sounds like your most secure situation is run XP or Windows 2000 and Blink.
 Well, and tell us what happens after the first free year as a Blink user, as a Blink personal
 user, is it then something that is affordable from then on?
 Yeah.
 Well, after that, and you can even buy it now if you don't want to send anonymous stuff
 to EI and you want support, I believe the specific price is about $26 or so.
 Oh my god.
 That's a good deal.
 Leo, I think we're going to solve a lot more of the marketing.
 That's another one worth of marketing.
 Well, yeah.
 I think that that's very compelling.
 You can't-- I should just say, we have a lot of listeners outside the US and Canada.
 I presume this is for legal reasons.
 You can't get it outside the US and Canada for free.
 For the free version, exactly.
 We do have a restriction on that for number of boring legal reasons.
 And it's lighter weight than the Symantec or the McAfee security suites.
 I mean, that's like it's much lighter weight.
 They really perked my ears up immediately.
 Exactly.
 I mean, we use-- when I was talking about all the layers that we have, we're smart.
 We're depending on what application and what attack.
 The layers don't overlap themselves as far as effort on the computer.
 So it'll use less, not only RAM, memory and whatnot, but also as far as the CPU performance
 and that sort of thing.
 And I gave you an exact-- actually, blink personal after the year or if you want support
 now is $24.95 for one computer or three computers is $29.
 It's a very good deal.
 Thank you for making that so affordable.
 That's great.
 No, definitely.
 Definitely.
 So I'm hoping my mom stops calling me about stuff.
 It's funny when we're building stuff, when we're adding stuff and engineering for stuff
 like blink.
 I mean, there's just as much features as we want to get done and complete just for our
 own network and protecting ourselves and also all of our family members.
 We're like, no, no, we've got this great thing, you know, a person.
 Well, Mark, this has been absolutely fantastic.
 I am so glad that we followed up on once a few weeks ago saying, hey, you know, we ought
 to have Mark.
 Yeah, it's been really great.
 That's really been great.
 No, definitely.
 I mean, thanks for the invitation.
 I always listen to you guys.
 And when we got the offer, I was ecstatic, so I mean, I've known you guys both before
 and you guys were doing a great job and keep it up.
 Thank you so much.
 That's Mark Mayfray, M-A-I-F-R-E-T and the company is E-E-Y-E.com.
 You can get blink if you go to the E-I.com site and you click the Products button and
 drop it down.
 I think personal is the free one for folks in the U.S. and Canada.
 And then you can also buy a license if you're outside.
 And I think 20, what do you say?
 22 bucks?
 That's not bad.
 20-something, 95.
 Yeah, nothing.
 The marketing guys have been into it, of course.
 I've got to say, you know, I am going to start recommending this.
 What he talked about, the architecture of Blink is so, so correct compared to always
 following behind and doing pattern-based, you know, download the latest security updates
 and you're not safe until then, this thing preemptively protects people.
 And what I love most, you know, me coding everything in a assembly language, is that
 apparently from what Mark said, this is dramatically lighter weight than any of the contemporary
 monster security suites.
 So I think this gives you, I mean, certainly you want to be behind, I guess you want to
 be behind a personal firewall.
 We didn't really ask him if it's also doing firewall technology because he did mention
 that at the enterprise level, it has that too.
 But you know, anybody with XP and Vista already has one, I don't know if it does outbound
 protection.
 I'm going to have to study it a little bit, but boy Leo, I think this is terrific.
 Let's, before we finish this up, I want to mention, as long as we're talking about security,
 the good folks at Astaro who've been with us for so long, they have, of course, a hardware
 security solution that is the ultimate security gateway.
 It does everything, I mean, everything that you need when it comes to security, including
 email security like spam and phishing filters, you get dual virus protection for email, transparent
 encryption at the gateway, which is really neat.
 If you want to use PGP or S-MIME encryption, your desktops, your users don't need to know
 anything about it.
 That happens automatically at the gateway, both in and out encryption and decryption.
 You also get, of course, a great list of security features like you get the antivirus for the
 web, anti spyware, you get instant message and peer to peer control, you get network
 protection, firewall, remote access VPN, by the way, the new SSL VPN in version seven
 is so great, so easy to use intrusion protection also will also, and it grows with you because
 it can be scaled up to 10 security gateways can be connected, making it a very, very good
 solution for a business that's growing.
 You don't need to install additional load balancers or anything, it just does it automatically.
 It's a patent pending technology that increases the speed and the reliability of network traffic.
 And as far as the home user licenses, we mentioned before, it's open source, you can download
 it for free if you're a home user from AST, ARO.com, in fact, they are now including in
 the base license, all subscriptions in a star, up to date, they used to charge 79 euros for
 it.
 So that is a really, really slick deal.
 AST ARO.com or call 877 the number four, a star, oh, if you'd like to get a free trial
 of the star of security gateway version seven in your business, that's eight, seven, seven,
 the number four, AST ARO, thank you so much to a star for being such a great supportive
 security now for almost a year, almost a year now.
 In fact, over a year, what am I saying?
 It's been a long time.
 Steve, any other items next week we got our Q&A, right?
 Yep, we're going to launch into our Q&A and then the week after that we're going to continue
 with a never ending stream of hopefully fun and entertaining and interesting security
 discussion.
 Well, more people are listening all the time.
 I was just taking a look at the numbers and great growth.
 And we were really glad that you listened to the show and we hope you will keep listening.
 A reminder, of course, that grc.com is Steve's home on the internet.
 That's where you can go to find 16 kilobit versions of the show for the bandwidth impaired.
 You could get transcripts.
 I think this would be a great show to get the transcript of.
 We'll make sure Elaine gets to work on that right away.
 We also have notes there and previous shows and Steve's great free security utilities,
 things like secureable, that's the new one, shoot the messenger, unplug and pray, de-combobulator
 in the world, famous shields up, rapidly approaching 50 million uses.
 You're going to have a party for that or anything?
 I will say hi.
 Woohoo!
 You should give something to the 50 millionth user.
 We can work at something if you want to have a prize package for the 50 millionth user.
 Would you be eight?
 Would your logs be able to tell you who that was?
 No.
 We're at 49.816.
 Very close.
 You're going to point at the rate that you go, how soon is that, a week, two, three?
 You've got a couple hundred thousand?
 No, we do about 25,000 a day.
 So looks like it would be about 10 days.
 Holy cow, holy cow, that's really neat.
 We should, something, a horn should go off anyway.
 GRC.com, that's also where you'll find Spinrite, which is the ultimate disc recovery and maintenance
 utility.
 We have, and guys on the Geek Squad, don't worry.
 You can get a license.
 Just go there.
 It's very affordable.
 We're big on, we're big on forgiveness here, amnesty program.
 Anybody who's got a Spinrite and doesn't have a license, just go there right now, g-r-c-dot.
 Steve Gibson, wow, what a great show.
 We will see you next time on Security Now.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
