 - Yep, it's that time once again.
 Hello, everybody, Leo Loport here
 with the best of 2022 security now.
 Next.
 - Podcasts you love.
 - From people you trust.
 - This is Twit.
 - This is security now with Steve Gibson,
 episode 903 for Tuesday, December 27th, 2022.
 The year's best.
 Security now is brought to you by ExpressVPN.
 Using the internet without ExpressVPN
 is like walking your dog in public
 without securing them on a leash.
 For three extra months free with a one year package,
 go to expressvpn.com/securitynow.
 And by Colide.
 Colide is an endpoint security solution
 that uses the most powerful untapped resource in IT.
 End users.
 Visit colide.com/securitynow to learn more
 and activate a 14 day free trial today.
 No credit card required.
 We're gonna let Steve take a week off
 a much needed week off
 and talk about some of the biggest stories of the year
 from 2022.
 This actually is a good show to listen to
 or to give people who haven't heard security now
 to give them an idea of the breadth of content
 and the depth of content with everything Steve does.
 Starting with perhaps the worst exploit,
 if you could pick one,
 the worst exploit of 2022, log4j.
 Okay, so many security firms are tracking threat actors
 who immediately and predictably jumped aboard
 the log4j bandwagon.
 You know, it's been a feeding frenzy for the security firms
 to help bring this home and make it a bit more real.
 I wanted to share a piece of Checkpoint Research's
 reverse engineering work on a typical threat
 the internet is now facing.
 I've got for anyone who wants more detail.
 I was always a link in the show notes.
 Last week, Checkpoint documented the efforts
 of an Iranian government backed group known again,
 not just Iranians, Iranian government backed group
 known as APT35, also known as Charming Kitten, TA-453,
 and Phosphorus.
 This group started widespread scanning
 and attempts to leverage the log4j flaw
 in publicly facing systems only four days
 after the vulnerability was disclosed.
 And, you know, all the bad guys knew
 now that this was public,
 it was, you know, it was going to get remediated
 at some speed, the point being, let's be first, you know,
 get in there before that gets before the back doors get closed.
 Since this actors, this particular actors setup was hurried,
 they simply grabbed one of the publicly available
 open source GitHub hosted JNDI exploit kits.
 Yes, they were on GitHub initially,
 but that kit has been removed from GitHub
 due to its enormous popularity
 following the vulnerability emergence.
 You know, why bother reinventing that particular wheel
 when time is of the essence?
 They also based their operations
 upon their preexisting infrastructure
 rather than like creating a whole new one.
 And that infrastructure was already well known
 to Checkpoint, thus making its detection
 and attribution all the easier.
 On the show notes, I have a flow chart
 which shows the path that the exploit takes
 and it could hardly be any easier or direct.
 First, the attackers send a crafted request
 to the victims publicly facing internet exposed resource,
 whatever it is, a server of some sort.
 In this particular case, the weaponized payload
 was sent in through either the user agent
 or the HTTP authorization headers.
 Remember that all that needs to happen
 is that something somewhere that's Java based
 logs part of the query
 that contains this weaponized string.
 In order to log the query, log4j examines what it's logging,
 sees a JNDI component and goes about its job
 of obtaining the content from the LDAP URL
 contained in the query, which is being logged.
 So the vulnerable machine as it's been instructed to do
 basically, although not after it's been patched,
 but until then reaches out to what they labeled
 in their diagram, a log4j exploitation server,
 which assembles the and returns a malicious Java class
 which will be executed on the vulnerable machine.
 The class runs a PowerShell command
 with a base64 encoded payload.
 And I actually have a picture of the actual payload,
 the exploit.command, PowerShell,
 and then the encoded payload.
 That PowerShell command downloads a PowerShell module
 from an Amazon S3 bucket URL,
 and it actually is HTTP colon slash slash S3.amazonAWS.com/doc_library_sales/test.text,
 and executes it.
 And we have a picture of that in the show notes,
 the actual thing that's downloaded.
 The downloaded PowerShell payload is the main module
 that's then responsible for basic communication
 with the command and control server
 and the execution of additional modules
 which may be received.
 So the main module performs the following operations.
 It validates the network connection.
 Upon execution, the script waits for an active internet
 connection by repetitively making HTTP post requests
 to Google.com with the parameter high equals hi,
 hi equals hi, just to see if it can succeed.
 That's how it detects whether or not
 it's got an internet connection.
 Assuming that it does, then it knows that.
 It also performs basic system enumeration.
 It collects the Windows OS version, the computer's name,
 and the contents of a file ni.text in app data,
 in the app data path.
 The file is presumably created and filled
 by different modules that will be downloaded
 by the main module.
 It then retrieves the command and control servers domain.
 The malware decodes the command and control domain retrieved
 from a hard-coded URL located in the same S3 bucket
 from where the back door was downloaded
 so that the bad guys have dynamic control over that
 by deciding what goes in this AWS bucket.
 It also retrieves decrypts and executes follow-up modules.
 Okay, so once all the data is gathered,
 the malware starts communication
 with the command and control server at the domain
 which it determined by pulling that
 from the Amazon AWS cloud bucket.
 And it does that.
 It communicates with the command and control server
 by periodically sending HTTP post requests.
 I mean, none of this is high tech.
 None of this is rocket science.
 This is easy to do,
 which is why this is terrified everybody so much.
 So this thing sends HTTP post requests
 to a pre-configured URL with each post request
 containing information from which to build a session key,
 the OS version, the computer's name,
 and the contents of that file in the app data directory.
 So that ends up being something unique
 which it uses to identify itself each time.
 And I think as I recall,
 it puts it in a session header in the post query.
 In response to the command and control servers
 receiving these post requests,
 it can either choose not to respond,
 in which case the script will keep sending post requests
 periodically to continue to provide the server
 with a stream of response opportunities
 or the server will return a base 64 encoded string.
 Now, just as a reminder,
 base 64 is a means for sending binary data
 over an ASCII channel that is over a text only channel.
 Groups of three 8-bit binary bytes,
 so three 8-bit binary bytes is 24 bits,
 they're regrouped from three 8-bit bytes
 to four 6-bit bytes.
 Six bits can have 64 combinations.
 So we take the lower and the upper alphabet,
 gives us two times 26 characters or 52 characters.
 We add the 10 decimal digits,
 that brings us up to 62 characters,
 and then we toss in two additional ones,
 the plus and the forward slash, which brings us to 64.
 So in groups of three,
 binary is taken from the source binary,
 those 24 bits are regrouped into four characters,
 each one of 64 different possibilities,
 that's then all munged back together
 and sent down with a client,
 which reverses the encoding process
 to restore the original binary.
 This allows the malicious server to squirt
 anything it wants into the victim machine
 that's making the queries.
 The modules downloaded in this fashion
 are either PowerShell or C# scripts.
 The modules sent by the command and control server
 are executed by the main module,
 with each one reporting data back to the server separately.
 So the original module comes in, looks around,
 sets up shop, figures out who to talk to,
 initiates the dialogue and does that periodically.
 If in response to one of its multiple post queries,
 it receives a blob of base 64,
 it goes, oh, okay, something to do.
 It decodes it back into whatever it was before,
 removes the base 64 encoding,
 we know that that's gonna be a PowerShell
 or a C# script and runs it.
 At that point, that subsidiary module takes off on its own
 and it establishes its own communication
 directly with the command and control server.
 The command and control cycle continues indefinitely,
 which allows the threat actors to gather data
 on the infected machine, run arbitrary commands,
 and possibly escalate their actions
 by performing a lateral movement
 or executing follow-up malware, such as ransomware.
 In other words, this thing can do anything it wants to
 once it gains a foothold.
 So the modules, every module is auto-generated
 by the attackers based on the data sent by the main module.
 Each of the modules contains a hard-coded machine name
 and a hard-coded C and C domain.
 Every module checkpoint observed
 contained a block of shared code, which makes sense,
 'cause there's a bunch of stuff
 that they're all gonna do regardless
 of their specific function.
 And that is encrypting the data to be sent,
 exfiltrating the gathered data through a post request
 or uploading it to an FTP server, that also happens,
 and sending execution logs to a remote server.
 In addition to this, each module performs one specific job.
 That is, in addition to those things they all have in common,
 checkpoint retrieved and analyzed modules
 for six different functions.
 Listing installed applications,
 that is, applications installed on the machine,
 taking screenshots, listing the running processes,
 getting OS and computer information, executing a predefined
 command from the command and control server,
 and then finally, cleaning up any traces created
 by any of the other modules.
 The applications module uses two methods
 to fetch and return a list of installed modules.
 It can either enumerate the uninstall registry values
 or use the windows management instrumentation command
 in order to get an enumeration.
 It gets those, encrypts them,
 and sends them back to headquarters.
 The screenshot module, they found both C sharp
 and PowerShell scripts for the screenshot.
 They both had the capability to capture multiple screenshots
 at specified intervals and upload the resulting
 screenshots to an FTP server,
 whose credentials are provided by the script.
 The C sharp script uses a base 64 encoded PowerShell command
 to take the screenshot from multiple screens.
 So again, you might have this thing in your computer,
 not know it, you're doing things,
 and this thing is spying on you,
 sending shots of your screens back to headquarters.
 The processes module,
 obtains a list of the machine's running processes
 using the task list command,
 gathers them, encodes them, sends them back.
 The system information module
 contains a bunch of PowerShell commands.
 What was interesting was that in the instances
 that Checkpoint saw,
 the bad guys had commented out
 all of these potential sources of information,
 they just weren't using it.
 This told Checkpoint that this whole campaign
 was hastily assembled.
 Since the entire, you know, as we know,
 attacker community was well aware
 that systems would be closing their doors very quickly.
 So there was like all these different suggestions of,
 you know, the moment this thing went public,
 the attackers jumped on it and said,
 let's quickly get something together
 that we can exploit this with.
 And finally, we have the command execution module,
 which is able to essentially download and execute
 any actions, any commands that are provided
 by the command and control server.
 They saw, for example,
 listing the contents of the C drive route,
 listing the specific Wi-Fi profile details
 using NetSH, the WLAN sub-command of that.
 And also listing all the drives using GetPS drive,
 a PowerShell enumerator.
 And finally, the cleanup module,
 it's dropped after the attackers have finished their activity
 and want to remove any traces
 that they've been inside the system.
 The module contains cleanup methods
 for persistence related artifacts in the registry
 and the startup folder, you know,
 any files created and any running processes.
 It contains five hard-coded levels
 of sort of like stages of cleanup,
 depending upon the stage of the attack,
 each one serving a different purpose.
 Checkpoint said that the design and the intent
 of the cleanup module made it clear
 that the threat actors want to keep the infection
 on the machine, first of all,
 for as long as they deem necessary,
 but then after once their goal has been achieved,
 they want to disappear without a trace.
 So that no one believes that an attack occurred.
 As for attribution, of course, we know
 attribution of network remote attacks
 often falls somewhere between difficult to impossible,
 but not so in this case.
 Most advanced persistent threat actors
 put some effort into making sure to change their tools
 and their infrastructure to avoid being detected
 in the first place and to make attribution much more difficult
 if they were detected.
 And in fact, you know, we know that the solar winds attacks
 were famous for like really working to obscure
 the path by which the infection happened
 if it were to be discovered.
 However, APT 35 does not conform to this behavior.
 Apparently the group is famous
 within the cybersecurity community
 for the number of operational security mistakes
 they've made in previous operations,
 and they tend not to put too much effort
 into changing their infrastructure once it's been exposed.
 So it's a little wonder that their operation
 as checkpoint has detailed it,
 has significant overlaps in the code and the infrastructure
 which previously identified the activities of APT 35.
 As for code overlaps, four months ago in October of 2021,
 Google's tag team, remember their threat analysis group,
 published an article about APT 35's mobile malware,
 you know, because Google and Android.
 Even though the samples checkpoint analyzed
 were PowerShell scripts,
 the similar meaning, you know, PowerShell as opposed to Android.
 So Windows only, the similarity of coding style
 between them and the Android spyware
 that Google attributed to APT 35
 immediately caught checkpoints attention.
 For one thing, the implementation of the logging functions
 was identical between the Android app
 which Google analyzed and this present campaigns,
 PowerShell modules which use the identical logging format
 even though the commands are commented out
 and replaced with another format.
 The fact that these lines were not removed outright,
 checkpoint felt might indicate
 that the change was done only recently
 and the syntax of the logging messages themselves
 being logged is identical.
 As for infrastructure, both then and now campaigns,
 October and now apparently used
 the same server side infrastructure.
 When a client posts data to a remote HTTP server,
 the server side path of the query
 is called the API endpoint.
 Google's mobile analysis and checkpoints
 both revealed the use of the common endpoint slash API
 slash session.
 Now, okay, that's not a high entropy name.
 Could have just been a collision of, you know,
 convenience but checkpoint felt encouraged
 by the observed overlap and they stated in their report
 that other API endpoints are similar
 but not entirely identical due to the differences
 in the functionality of the platform.
 So it didn't make sense for them to be completely identical.
 Checkpoint also observed that not only
 are the URLs familiar but the command and control domain
 of the PowerShell variant responds to the API requests
 that are used in the mobile variant.
 This suggests similar, if not identical,
 server side support for both campaigns.
 So checkpoint concluded its report.
 By observing that every time
 there's a new published critical vulnerability,
 the entire info sec community holds its collective breath
 until its worst fears come true.
 Scenarios of real world exploitation appear
 especially by state sponsored actors.
 As they demonstrated in their report,
 the breath holding weight in the case of the log
 for J vulnerability was only a few days.
 The combination of its simplicity,
 it's publicly available open source code samples
 and the massively tantalizing number of vulnerable devices.
 Made this a very attractive vulnerability for actors
 such as APT 35 and I have no doubt
 that while I don't think I will continue giving this
 in depth coverage because we know pretty much
 everything there is to know about it.
 If something major happens,
 it'll certainly be newsworthy
 but that's how this stuff works.
 Again, just it's frightening how non rocket science,
 how script kitty level this thing is
 and that it can get up to so much mischief.
 - Amazing.
 Even a, what is it a kitty?
 What kind of kitty?
 Charming kitten.
 Even charming kitten can do it.
 Who comes up?
 Is that like a Volnonym, who comes up with, I mean,
 there's Fancy Bear for the Russian group,
 Charming Kitten for the Uranium Group.
 Somebody's coming up with these.
 Must be the CIA or the NSA, that's just why.
 - Okay, so unsurprisingly, as I said at the top of the show,
 the world's cyber news this past week was dominated
 by the cyber aspects of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
 We've been living through
 and this Twitter podcast network has documented
 and chronicled important and fascinating aspects
 of the evolution of the personal computer and the internet.
 When I think back Leo to where we were with honey monkeys
 almost 18 years ago, it's like, okay, a lot has changed.
 HTTP was a thing, right, with no S.
 Now, good luck if you don't have an S there.
 And I have to admit that when this first,
 when this podcast, Security Now began,
 I was personally skeptical of the idea of cyber warfare.
 It just, like, really, like, packets, you know,
 well, obviously since then I've been well-disappused
 of any such skepticism.
 And I've been interested to note
 that in the last few weeks, all the experts,
 'cause like cyber warfare is like a topic now.
 Like on any time, like there's a discussion
 of what's going on.
 It's like, oh, whatever, you know,
 this threat of cyber warfare.
 And the presumption is that it would not be constrained
 to Russia and Ukraine.
 It would be, you know, global to some degree.
 But the point is that all the experts
 that I'm hearing talk about, it feel much as I do,
 which is that it's something no one is really that excited
 to unleash.
 Very much like, you know, the Cold War days
 of mutually assured destruction.
 And as I said last week,
 the feeling is that no one has any real confidence
 in their own defenses being adequate.
 So nobody wants to be the first to initiate what's,
 whoa, and I forgot to turn that down.
 Our little friend telling me I've got email, sorry.
 No one's that, you know, confident
 about their own defenses being adequate.
 So no one wants to be the first to initiate
 what might be mutually assured cyber destruction.
 We don't even know what that looks like.
 And nobody wants to find out.
 Yet, here we are today kind of picking around the edges
 of exactly that possibility such that more than any other
 time in the past, it's on everyone's lips.
 Okay, so I'm not gonna spend an inordinate amount of time
 on any one of these topics.
 But literally, as I was going through the last weeks,
 what is there to talk about, it was all about this.
 It was all about the consequences of this.
 So Saturday before last, on the 26th,
 Ukraine's Minister of Digital Transformation,
 whose name we'll hear of a few times today,
 Michaelo Fereov, announced the creation of an army
 of IT specialists to fight for Ukraine in cyberspace.
 Michaelo said, "We have many talented Ukrainians in tech,
 developers, cyber specialists, designers, copywriters,
 marketing specialists, targeting specialists."
 Wow, targeting specialists.
 He said, "We are creating an IT army.
 All operational tasks will be posted here.
 There's plenty to do for everyone.
 We continue our fight at the cyber front."
 So of course, being that he's their digital transformation guy,
 his focus is that.
 Anyway, turns out that Michaelo's call did not go unheated.
 And when I captured this particular report,
 the number of volunteers that had signed up,
 and we'll see that by the time we end this podcast,
 that number has grown, at this point,
 it was already 175,000 people had said,
 "Yeah, I want to sign the up.
 I want to put 175,000--"
 Wow.
 "I didn't know there were that many people with skills."
 Well, and then they said,
 copywriters, marketing specialists.
 So you don't have to actually know
 how to sharpen the front edge of a packet
 in order to send it off.
 Wow.
 You just have to know what that packet should contain,
 I guess, if it was some propaganda or something like that.
 You might see specialists to manage the database of volunteers.
 That's what they're gonna need.
 That's right.
 So he said, "Many have been tasked with launching DDoS attacks
 against Russian websites, including government websites,
 banks and energy companies.
 On the 27th the day after this,
 officials also told volunteers
 to target websites registered in Belarus.
 Michaelo also publicly released the targeting list."
 Okay, so this is the IT Army of Ukraine.
 It says, "For all IT specialists from other countries,
 we translated tasks in English."
 So he says, "Task number one,
 we encourage you to use any vectors
 of cyber and DDoS attacks on these resources."
 So this is the publicly posted list from Ukraine.
 So we've got three categories, business corporations, banks and the state.
 So for example, business corporations, Gazprom, I can't even pronounce these things.
 I won't try, but there's like one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 specific business
 corporations where the you are there URL.
 And I think without exception, there is a dot com by by far the most or dot are you, of course.
 There are some there's a dot org predominantly are you.
 Then we've got three banks, the S per bank, VTB and Gazprom bank.
 And then the third category is the state.
 There's public services, Moscow State Services, president of the Russian Federation,
 government of the Russian Federation, Ministry of Defense, tax, whatever that is.
 Customs, pension fund and our favorite, Ross, come, manzoar is also there.
 So, you know, I mean, obviously they're being put upon that is Ukraine is and they're saying, hey,
 cyber is now a vector of of counter attack.
 So let's go.
 And, you know, here's your initial targeting list.
 Yikes, an open call for everyone, you know, anyone and everyone to participate.
 Um, you know, and but let's be clear that the perceived justice, if that's how you feel of this cause
 doesn't make it legal, right?
 So people listening that don't go, don't go off attacking Russia because, you know,
 because some guy in Ukraine said, yeah, here's, here's where you go.
 Don't do that according to Victor Zora, an official at the Ukrainian
 cybersecurity agency charged with protecting government networks.
 He said, quote, Russian media outlets that are, quote, constantly lying to their citizens,
 unquote, and financial and transportation organizations supporting the war effort
 are among the potential targets for digital attacks from the so-called Ukrainian
 IT army.
 He said that the IT army is a loose band of Ukrainian citizens and foreigners
 that are not part of the Ukrainian government.
 But Keve is encouraging them.
 It's an example of how the Ukrainian government is pulling out all the stops
 to try to slow Russia's military assault and illustrates how cyber attacks have
 played a supporting role in the war.
 The goal of this IT army of Ukraine is to, quote, do everything possible
 to make the aggressor feel uncomfortable with their actions in cyberspace and in
 Ukrainian land.
 Uh, and so, you know, this was Victor Zora in a video conference with journalists
 on Friday, and, and I will say, because I've just gone through this myself,
 assembling this 17 page notes for this podcast.
 If you follow along by the end of this podcast, I would argue you will have a very
 mature, complete, almost comprehensive, I dare say, appreciation for everything
 that is going on, like everywhere on this.
 It's, it's what we're here to talk about.
 Well, Russia hasn't disconnected from the internet yet, but who knows what
 2023 will be.
 We'll be back with more of Steve Gibson in just a moment.
 First a word from our sponsor.
 I hope you're enjoying our best of Steve's grade, isn't he?
 We just love doing this show together.
 And for most of the year, we have loved our sponsor Express VPN.
 They've been with us all year long using the internet without Express VPN.
 My personal choice for VPN.
 Well, that would be, I don't know, like walking your dog in public without a leash.
 Most of the time, no problem.
 You'll probably be fine.
 But what if one day the dog runs away or gets dognapped?
 It's better to be careful.
 You're not preparing for everyday activity or preparing for the worst.
 Somebody spying on you, somebody attacking you.
 That's why it's great when you've got something as simple as Express VPN.
 Every time you connect to an unencrypted network, which could be in cafes and hotels
 and airports, your online data is insecure.
 Any hacker in the same network has all sorts of ways to attack your system
 and steal your personal data using things that are widely available on the internet,
 like the Wi-Fi pineapple, but Express VPN creates a secure encrypted tunnel
 between your device and the internet so they can't see you.
 They can't attack you.
 You're absolutely safe.
 In fact, it's so good.
 The encryption is so strong to take a hacker with a supercomputer over a
 billion years to get past Express VPN's encryption.
 Express VPN works on all your devices, phone, tablet, laptop, even on your smart TV.
 In fact, they've got a great router now.
 They, you could put Express VPN on many routers, but they even sell a router.
 That's just fantastic.
 In fact, we were talking to Doug Hamm, right?
 He took an Express VPN router with him to Vietnam, was able to watch all his shows
 in the United States, communicate securely and safely, work phenomenally.
 And he said he was getting amazing data rates.
 I can't remember what he said, but it was like 100, 200, 300 megabits.
 Try that with some other VPN, only Express VPN works as fast as you do.
 And it's so easy to use.
 Put it on the router or just fire up the app, click one button, boom, you're safe.
 Now if you go to expressvpn.com/security, now you can get three extra
 months with a one year package, absolutely free expressvpn.com/security.
 Now by a 12 year package, you'll get 15 months for the price of 12.
 And I have to tell you, it is the only VPN I trust, the only one I use.
 Expressvpn.com/security now.
 Thank you, Express VPN for being such a great sponsor for Steve's work all this year.
 Speaking of work, time to get back to Steve.
 We're back with more 2022.
 We kick things off in this segment with a look at Kaspersky antivirus.
 Is it safe?
 Well, the US, the FCC, Kaspersky Labs and Chinese telecoms are all mixed up.
 Last Friday, in an announcement titled FCC expands list of equipment
 and services that pose security threat, unquote.
 The US Federal Communications Commission added the well known to us Russian
 cybersecurity firm Kaspersky to its covered list, believing that the use
 of Kaspersky lab products poses unacceptable risks to US national security.
 The coverage includes information that the Kaspersky's information, security
 products, solutions and services supplied by Kaspersky or any linked
 companies, including subsidiaries or affiliates.
 And the same day last Friday, the hacker one bug bounty program also
 terminated their relationship with Kaspersky.
 Hacker one's decision to disable Kaspersky's bug bounty program follows the news
 that Germany's federal office for information security, known as BSI, had
 warned companies against using Kaspersky products.
 The German regulator indicated that Russian authorities could force the AV
 provider into allowing Russian intelligence to launch cyber attacks
 against its customers or have its products used for cyber espionage campaigns.
 Just to be clear, this is all entirely without any precipitating evidence and
 only out of an abundance of caution.
 Kaspersky responded by writing.
 Kaspersky is disappointed with the decision by the Federal Communications
 Commission to prohibit certain telecommunications related federal
 subsidies from being used to purchase Kaspersky products and services.
 This decision is not based on any technical assessment of Kaspersky products
 that the company continuously advocates for, but instead is being made on
 political grounds.
 Kaspersky maintains that the US government's 2017 prohibitions on federal
 entities and federal contractors from using Kaspersky products and services
 were unconstitutional based on unsubstantiated allegations and lacked
 any public evidence of wrongdoing by the company.
 And there has been no public evidence to otherwise justify those actions since
 2017 and the FCC announcement specifically refers to the Department of
 Homeland Security's 2017 determination as the basis for today's decision.
 Kaspersky believes today's expansion of such prohibition on entities that
 receive FCC communications related subsidies is similarly unsubstantiated
 and as a response to the geopolitical climate rather than a comprehensive
 evaluation of the integrity of Kaspersky's products and services.
 Kaspersky will continue to assure its partners and customers on the quality
 and integrity of its products.
 And remains ready to cooperate with US government agencies to address the
 FCC's and any other regulatory agency's concerns.
 Kaspersky provides industry leading products and services to customers around
 the world to protect them from all types of cyber threats and it has stated
 clearly that it doesn't have any ties with any government, including rushes.
 The company believes the transparency and the continued implementation of
 concrete measures to demonstrate its enduring commitment to integrity and
 trustworthiness to its customers is paramount.
 Unquote.
 Now, I completely agree that Kaspersky has never given us any cause to mistrust
 them, but that's not the question or the problem.
 That's a misdirection, I think, that misses the point.
 And they know what the point is where they are is the point.
 So I'm not sympathetic to Kaspersky's plight.
 None of this should have been a surprise to them.
 It's been their conscious choice to remain operating in Russia for the past
 eight years since 2014 after their president and country illegally invaded
 Ukraine and annexed its Crimean Peninsula and being in Russia, they know
 far more than we do how their country is being run and has been acting.
 We know that not everyone in Russia agrees with Putin.
 And I don't doubt that Kaspersky would resist and fight any subversion of
 their integrity. That's all they have, and that's a lot to lose.
 But given everything we've seen recently, it might not be their choice.
 And that's the point.
 Given the awesome networking power that a deeply trusted and embedded company
 such as Kaspersky wields and in the context of an authoritarian regime, which
 is increasingly acting as if it has nothing left to lose, there's every
 reason to worry that Kaspersky's employees could be forced to act against their
 will. So it's not Kaspersky for a moment that I don't trust.
 It's their ruthless and immoral government that ultimately controls
 them, which we cannot afford to trust in this instance.
 And there are plenty of good, maybe even better choices in the world.
 It's not like they exactly.
 Now, I have to point out that Kaspersky got his technical education
 from the KGB higher school, which prepares intelligence officers for the
 Russian military and KGB.
 He has a degree from there in mathematical engineering and computer
 technology. He served in the Soviet military Soviet military intelligence
 service as a software engineer, and he met his wife at a KGB vacation resort
 two years before he founded Kaspersky antivirus.
 I'm not saying I mean, here's part of the problem is everybody loves Eugene
 because he goes, he's a very good salesman.
 And he goes around and he goes to conferences and stuff and, you know, he
 buys people drinks to Voorak used to swear by Kaspersky, probably because he
 used to hang with Eugene.
 Yep.
 I don't know. I think there's there's no evidence, but there's enough smoke.
 Yes. And your point, Leo, is why take the risk?
 You don't have to. So why? And all this, by the way, is saying you can't use
 government subsidies to buy Kaspersky. Right. Right.
 By the way, you can't buy a lot of Russian stuff right now.
 Not because they're inherently insecure, but because it's money to Russia.
 So I don't think this is a bridge too far.
 Yeah. And, you know, from my standpoint, there's no way I would feel completely
 comfortable right now if my computer was running software that was routinely
 phoning home to Russia. That just, you know, seems a bad idea.
 We're waiting for the big cyber attack and they were implicated in the in the
 leak of the NSA hacking tools, whether intentionally or not they were involved.
 Yeah, which is not to say that other AV might not have also been doing the same
 thing, but, you know, theirs went to Russia.
 So anyway, and, you know, for what it's worth, Kaspersky has not been singled out
 for this treatment, at least not globally, last week's decision to designate
 Kaspersky as a national security threat follows previous decisions to ban and
 revoke China, UNICOM America's license over serious national security concerns
 in January of this year. And two and a half years or two and a half weeks ago,
 the FCC added the Chinese telecommunications companies, Huawei, ZTE,
 Hiterra Communications, HIC Vision, and DAWA to its ban list back in June of
 2020, Huawei and ZTE were designated national security threats to the
 integrity of the US communications networks or the communications supply
 chain. And now the Chinese state owned mobile service providers, China mobile
 international USA and China telecom Americas have been added as well. So, you
 know, 10 years they're running high. And, you know, Leah, we're in this weird
 world of deep economic codependency with those we do not trust. It's freaky.
 I mean, I don't think I have anything. I don't think I own anything that didn't
 come from China, China, baby. Yeah. Yet, you know, here we are, you know,
 and how many times have I talked about our IoT stuff, you know, all my my
 lights and plugs and things turn on and off because they're connecting to
 Chinese cloud services. I actually think that's a good thing, not for a
 six, a security point of view, but from a global economic perspective,
 interdependence is good for peace. Yes. And if it weren't, if we weren't so
 independent, interdependent, we couldn't sanction Russia to the degree we
 have. Yeah. Obviously, it's not enough to stop them, but well, it's not enough
 to stop one man. Right. That's the problem is that this guy is, you know,
 believed to be the richest person in the world, you know, nothing. He doesn't
 care at this point. And there are, there are no handles on him. There's
 nothing we can do. Right. And so we'll see what happens there. Yikes.
 Lenovo. Leo, I heard you refer to Lenovo's UEFI problems on some
 podcast recently. So, you know, this has been in the news a lot. Oh,
 yeah, it's not surprising. I'm aware because I buy a lot of Lenovo
 hardware. So that's been the thinkpad, right? Yeah. Like,
 it's like the yes, the premiere laptop. So as we know, when a PC is
 powered up, something needs to wake up and configure the various parts of
 the machine. The video needs to be started. The fans need to spin up
 all of the machines, various mass storage subsystems need to be
 initialized. And then the firmware's configuration needs to be checked.
 The proper operating system needs to be located and its OS boot code
 needs to be initially loaded into RAM so that control can be turned over to
 it to continue booting the machine. The first PCs did that using their
 basic input output system, BIOS or BIOS. That was good for about five years.
 That actually didn't last very long because the PC just exploded in terms
 of, you know, what everybody wanted to do with it. So the limitations,
 which had been built into the BIOS's assumptions began to cause more
 problems than they were worth than they were worth almost automatically.
 And various Mickey Mouse workarounds were created to overcome many of
 these problems, while Intel worked on a wholesale replacement of the BIOS.
 The initial attempt was the EFI, the so-called extensible firmware interface,
 which quickly matured into the unified extensible firmware interface,
 UEFI. And we find ourselves right back where we always do.
 The original BIOS was so dumb that it could not be infected.
 It was originally implemented in sometimes dumb is a good thing.
 That's exactly. It was originally implemented in masked ROM,
 meaning that the firmware's bits were etched into a metal mask at the factory
 and could never be changed. It did mean you had to get the code right the first
 time. And that was something people used to be able to do, but we don't do that
 anymore. So that soon gave way to non volatile flash ROM,
 which could be updated, but the code it implemented was still
 blessedly dumb. Sometimes for some things, the dumb are the better,
 because if all you want is to boot an OS, you really don't need not much smarts.
 BIOS did it just fine. And the lesson we keep falling into and we keep
 failing to learn is that the more complicated, fancy, capable and smart,
 we make things, the more leeway in latitude the system has to go very badly
 wrong. So welcome to the unified extensible firmware interface where malware is
 also able to extend the firmware.
 Lenovo has been most recently in the, we made a UFI mistake news recently.
 Last week, the guys over at ESET, whose motto is we live security,
 posted the results of their analysis of some widely used Lenovo
 UEFI firmware. Their postings title was, quote, when secure isn't secure at all,
 colon, high impact UEFI vulnerabilities discovered in Lenovo consumer
 laptops. And the story's tagline is ESET researchers discover multiple
 vulnerabilities in various Lenovo laptop models that allow an attacker with
 admin privileges to expose the user to firmware level malware.
 OK, firmware level malware. That's not what you want to hear.
 That's even less what you want to have crawling around inside your machine.
 Firmware level malware enables the ultimate in root kit techniques.
 In fact, having its own worst name boot kit.
 The presence of firmware level malware means quite simply that it's impossible
 to trust anything about what the machine might do.
 Firmware level malware is able to infect and compromise the operating system's own
 code during its boot process before it has had any opportunity to raise its own
 shields and reformatting the machine's mass storage and reinstalling an operating
 system or even removing and replacing a drive won't necessarily eliminate the
 problem because this malware has taken up residence in the machine's underlying
 firmware on the motherboard on a non-volatile memory soldered to the main
 board. Now, we know that anybody can make a mistake and I am as our listeners know,
 I am infinitely forgiving of mistakes.
 But the most troubling aspect of what the ESET researchers found was that two
 of the three big mistakes Lenovo made were the oversight of leaving highly
 exploitable drivers in the UEFI firmware image which should have only been present
 during the firmware's development.
 These drivers should have never left the factory.
 So it's not like they got, you know, a loop condition wrong or something like a
 mistake, you know, they've left stuff in there that should not be in there.
 How do we know? We know because the two drivers were actually named secure
 back door. That's the in the UEFI firmware.
 That's the driver's name.
 Yeah, we're going to talk about an oxymoron secure back door.
 Yeah, yeah, it turns out it wasn't.
 The other one was secure back door P-E-I-M.
 So here's what ESET said.
 They said ESET researchers have discovered and analyzed three vulnerabilities
 affecting various Lenovo consumer laptop models, various.
 Yeah, we'll get to that in a minute.
 The first two of these vulnerabilities and we got two CVEs from this year,
 3971 and 72 effect UEFI firmware drivers originally meant to be used.
 This is ESET only during the manufacturing process of Lenovo consumer notebooks.
 Unfortunately, writes ESET, they were mistakenly included also in the production
 firmware images without being properly deactivated slash or deleted.
 These affected firmware drivers can be activated by an attacker to directly
 disable SPI flash protections that is using control register bits and protected range registers
 or the UEFI secure boot feature from a privileged user mode process running OS runtime.
 OK, so just to be clear about what ESET just said, they said from a privileged user
 mode process in the OS. In other words, mistakenly a user, any user of these
 laptops mistakenly allowing some malware to run in their OS, which might
 innocently ask to be granted brief UAC privilege elevation to install something.
 If that is, if it didn't bring along its own privilege escalation,
 or ability exploit as it might, or which might set itself up to run as a system
 service, that code can disable all relevant UEFI right protections to then
 surreptitiously install semi-permanent hidden boot kit malware into the system's
 UEFI firmware and the user would be none the wiser.
 And we don't know how to scan for that yet.
 I mean, there's been some talk of scanning UEFI.
 Nothing much has come of it.
 ESET said it means that exploitation of these
 vulnerabilities would allow attackers to deploy and successfully execute SPI flash
 or ESP implants like Lojax.
 To understand how we were able to find these
 vulnerabilities, consider the firmware drivers affected by, and then this is the
 UEFI number, the 3971.
 They wrote, these drivers, imagine this Leo, immediately caught our attention
 by their very unfortunate, but surprisingly honest names.
 Secure backdoor and secure backdoor P-E-I-M.
 After some initial analysis, we discovered other Lenovo drivers
 sharing a few common characteristics with the secure backdoor asterisk drivers.
 Those are CHG, I guess that's short for change.
 And then boot DXE hook and CHG boot SMM.
 You know, SMM is system management mode stuff, which is the OS under the OS.
 As it turned out, they write, their functionality was even more interesting
 and could be abused to disable UEFI secure boot.
 Thus, that's the CVE ending in 3972.
 In addition, they said, while investigating the vulnerable drivers, we
 discovered a third vulnerability, SMM memory corruption inside the SW SMI
 handler function, thus we have CVE ending in 3970.
 This vulnerability, they said, allows arbitrary read write from into SM RAM,
 which can lead to the execution of malicious code with full SMM privileges.
 That's again, that's like the chip level privileges.
 Nothing more privileged in the world than that.
 And they said, potentially lead to the deployment of an SPI flash implant.
 We reported all discovered vulnerabilities to Lenovo on October 11th, 2021.
 And I didn't have it in the show notes, but Lenovo responded a month later,
 although the list of affected devices contains and here it comes.
 More than 100 different consumer laptop models with millions, many of users
 worldwide, from affordable models like IdeaPad 3 to more advanced ones like
 Legion 5 Pro or Yoga Slim 9, the full list of affected models with active
 development support is published in the Lenovo advisory.
 In addition to the models listed in the advisory, several other devices we
 reported to Lenovo are also affected, but won't be fixed due to them reaching
 end of development support, EODS.
 This includes devices where we spotted reported
 vulnerabilities for the first time, IdeaPad 3.30 and IdeaPad 1.10.
 The list of such EODS devices that we have been able to identify will be
 available in ESAT's vulnerability disclosures repository.
 And what this tells us, reading between the lines, is that these
 vulnerabilities have been there long enough for those machines, which they
 started affecting to now have left, have gone out of their service life with Lenovo.
 Thus, they will never be fixed.
 Lenovo, oh, yeah, I do have in the notes, Lenovo confirmed the vulnerabilities
 on November 17th, 2021 and assigned them the following CVEs.
 And I mean, they're coming right out with it.
 CVE ending in 37.90, Lenovo variable SMM.
 And they say hyphen, SMM arbitrary read, right.
 The one ending in 39.71, secure back door,
 disable SPI flash protections and 39.72, change boot DXE hook, disable UEFI secure boot.
 So given how incredibly active the cyber
 underworld is today, we keep encountering quite sobering evidence of it.
 You know, in every podcast now, there's just no chance that these now fully
 disclosed and very well documented vulnerabilities will not be used to
 compromise the interests of some of these millions of Lenovo laptop users worldwide.
 And many of them are going to be serious users.
 It will happen.
 So here we are once more noting that there's something very wrong with our
 industries current development model.
 You know, how can this be allowed to occur over and over and over?
 He said had to reverse engineer the proprietary code in this UEFI firmware
 in order to find these problems that it's and it's affecting Lord knows what
 multiple of millions of Lenovo laptop users.
 Lenovo messed up big time here, but for the record, they're not alone.
 These newly disclosed vulnerabilities merely add to the recent disclosure of
 more than fifty five zero UEFI firmware vulnerabilities, which have been found
 in inside softwares, you know, I and S Y D E inside softwares inside H two O and
 HP and Dell laptops since the start of just this year.
 Among those are six severe flaws in HP's firmware affecting both laptops and
 desktops, which when exploited could allow attackers to locally escalate to SMM
 privileges, which as I said, is as much as you can get on any hardware platform and
 trigger at least denial of service and maybe more.
 So, you know, Lenovo is in good company or at least only the most recent member of
 this UEFI vulnerability dog house.
 And as we know, it's not Lenovo's first instance of UEFI problems.
 We've, you know, years ago, they've also had problems.
 So we've managed to make our lovely little machines far more complex by
 designing in extremely powerful capabilities.
 Yes, we get lots more flexibility.
 We get remote management and remote maintenance and not surprisingly, it's
 also a mixed blessing.
 So a heads up to anyone using Lenovo laptops, regardless of the model you have.
 Don't look at a list of affected models.
 First of all, there's hundreds.
 You should definitely check in to see whether your device has a firmware update
 standing and for that matter, HP and Dell users would be well advised to do the same.
 Do you think these changes are driven by the needs of enterprise?
 In other words, are we personal and home users and geeks suffering because
 yes, exactly that.
 These management capabilities built exactly that, exactly that, Leo.
 Yeah, there should be and there are a few places where you can get simpler
 systems, a simpler UEFI and core boot, open source firmware and things like that.
 And they aren't really not aimed at enterprise.
 What was the other thing I wanted to
 to mention? Oh, yeah, firmware updates now.
 It's interesting or increasingly part of the operating system update.
 I don't know if you've noticed that.
 Yeah.
 Well, we know that Windows, for example, is patching the Intel the Intel chipset
 somewhere, Linux brings along the same thing and to their credit, although it is a
 little bit of a mixed blessing Lenovo now has software that comes pre-installed on
 their machines, which is taking responsibility for keeping your machines firmware up to date.
 So it makes it better than if you like, you know, never ever having the opportunity
 to proactively inform Lenovo machine owners and having a problem like this out
 that would make them persistently vulnerable.
 Yeah, yeah, boy, over the years, what is it?
 15 years I've been doing security now.
 The name Lenovo has come up a few times.
 I still love my think pads.
 That's all I that's all I'm going to say.
 We're going to take a little break.
 Come back with more of Steve Gibson and the best of security.
 Now, 2022 in just a moment, first word from our sponsor.
 I'm going to interrupt one more time, Steve.
 Sorry, the best stuff continues in moments.
 I guess I'm interrupting myself, aren't we?
 We'll have more with Stephen the best of it.
 Just a bit, but first a word from a great sponsor.
 They've been with us all year collide.
 Collide is an end point security system that uses the most powerful under appreciated
 untapped resource in IT, your end users.
 When you're trying to achieve security goals, whether for a third party audit or
 your own compliance standards, you know, the typical conventional wisdom is to treat
 a device like Fort Knox and every user like the enemy, old school device management
 tools like MDM's force disruptive agents onto employees devices.
 People know when they put them on, it's going to slow me down and it's going to hurt
 my privacy.
 That way of doing things turns you, IT admins into end enemies of the end users,
 right? And then you got your own security problems because end users say,
 well, I don't want the performance hit.
 You know, I want to preserve my privacy.
 So they turn to shadow IT just to do their jobs.
 Now, now you've got a big problem, right?
 Collide does things a little bit differently.
 Instead of forcing changes on users, collide sends them security recommendations
 via Slack.
 Collide automatically notifies your team when their devices are insecure, gives them
 step by step instructions on how to solve the problems.
 And by reaching out to employees via a friendly Slack DM and educating them about
 the company policies, collide can help you build a culture in which everyone
 contributes to security because everyone understands how and why to do it.
 Make employees part of your team, not the enemy.
 And for IT admins, you're going to love collide a single dashboard that lets you
 monitor the security of your entire fleet completely cross platform.
 Mac, Windows, Linux doesn't matter.
 You can see at a glance, for instance, which employees have their disks encrypted,
 which of them are up to date on their OS patches, whether they're using a password
 manager and on and on and on.
 That makes it easy to prove compliance to your auditors, to your customers,
 to your leadership, makes it easy for you to keep an eye on what's going on in
 your network.
 So in a nutshell, that's collide.
 User centered cross platform endpoint security for teams that slack.
 I think it's a brilliant idea.
 You can meet your compliance goals by putting users first.
 Is it K-O-L-I-D-E collide.com/security.
 Now to find out how if you follow that link, they'll hook you up with a goody bag,
 including a great collide t-shirt.
 I got it right here just for activating that free trial.
 You get collide coasters, all sorts of cool stuff.
 That's a that's a little holiday gift for you from collide.
 K-O-L-I-D, collide.com/security now.
 Now back to the best ofs back to the best of 2022 with Steve Gibson.
 Let's talk about pass keys.
 Now, let's talk about this FIDO things.
 I'm very I really want to get your take on it.
 So ours technicals headline was Apple, Google, and Microsoft want to kill
 the password with passkey standard.
 Instead of a password, devices would look for your phone over Bluetooth.
 Bleeping computers said Microsoft Apple and Google to support FIDO passwordless logins.
 The record said Google Apple and Microsoft to expand support for passwordless sign-in standard.
 You know, and made the headlines in all of the tech press.
 And all these headlines popped up last Thursday, May 5th, which, as I said at the top of the show,
 was not only Cinco de Mayo, but also World Password Day.
 And the news of and questions about this new pass keys was the most tweeted to me item
 of the past week with many of our listeners wanting to know what it was and what I thought.
 Having spent seven years of my life designing implementing demonstrating
 and proving a complete working solution to this need, I have a good grasp of the problem domain.
 So I dug into this pass keys news by going to the source as I always endeavor to.
 I first read the Google, I'm sorry, the FIDO alliances May 5th press release,
 which was titled Apple Google and Microsoft commit to expanded support for FIDO standard
 to accelerate availability of passwordless sign-ins.
 You know, this was the press release that everyone else was quoting in the news.
 It appeared that whoever wrote it was being paid by the word since it went on and on
 to make sure that its reader would come away knowing that all pre FIDO systems were bad
 and FIDO was the cure.
 At this point, it appears that regardless of whether or not it turns out to be the cure,
 it will at least be the next thing we try.
 And I'm in the same boat as all of our listeners were all avid users and consumers of the Internet.
 So we're all hoping that the industry knows what it's doing.
 But that press release wasn't going to get the job done.
 Fortunately, it linked to the description of the FIDO alliance white paper titled
 multi device FIDO credentials.
 The description of the paper that links to it said the FIDO standards together with their
 companion web often specification are on the cusp of an important new development.
 Evolutionary changes to the standards proposed by the FIDO alliance and the W3C web
 often community aim to markedly improve the usability and deployability of FIDO based
 authentication mechanisms.
 As a result, FIDO based secure authentication technology will, for the first time,
 be able to replace passwords as the dominant form of authentication on the Internet.
 What a concept.
 In this paper, they say we explain how FIDO and web often standards previously enabled
 low cost deployments of authentication mechanisms with very high assurance levels.
 While this has proved an attractive alternative to traditional smart card authentication
 and even opened the door to high assurance authentication in the consumer space.
 We have not attained large scale adoption of FIDO based authentication in the consumer
 space.
 We explain how the introduction of multi device FIDO credentials will enable FIDO
 technology to supplant passwords for many consumer use cases as they make FIDO credentials
 available to users wherever they need them, even if they replace their device.
 OK, so I have a link of the show notes to the PDF for anyone who wants the raw material.
 Obviously, this descriptive overview still doesn't tell us what we want to know.
 So I dug into the white paper.
 We get the executive summary followed by a brief history of online authentication.
 Then a section titled FIDO starting from the top followed by web often level three bringing up the bottom.
 So this brings us to the bottom of page four of the PDF and we begin to frame the problem as follows.
 The explanation explains FIDO based solutions can also increase the security of consumer
 factor authentication by providing phishing resistance regardless of whether those use cases
 care about hardware based sign in credentials or not.
 Now, I should mention that that FIDO was always hardware based, which has been the problem
 that they've been struggling with is that the FIDO authentication standard was you will
 have a hardware dongle, a token, a something which because it's hardware, because it's
 physical, it cannot be spoofed.
 It cannot be, you know, no one in Russia can get the contents of your of what you have
 in your thing, you're holding in your hand because you're holding it.
 The Yuba Key said there's some that are FIDO to Yuba Keys.
 That's that's what you mean.
 Yes, yes, yes.
 And so that's good.
 That's good security.
 No one would deny that, right?
 You could argue it's the best.
 Gold security.
 Yes, the problem is it's physical.
 I mean, make people buy keys.
 Fifty dollar keys.
 Yes, the better exactly.
 The benefit is it's physical.
 The problem is it's physical.
 And so if you absolute so where they say they said FIDO based solutions can also
 increase the security of consumer to factor authentication by providing phishing
 resistance regardless of whether those use cases care about hardware based
 sign in credentials or not.
 In other words, they're saying we're giving up.
 We're going to back down from the position we had taken.
 I mean, you could still use hardware based sign in credentials.
 But now you're not going to have to.
 We're not going to make you have to have a hardware dongle.
 And this has been sort of in the air for a couple of years, right?
 There's been talk about being able to use your phone as your FIDO authenticator.
 So this notion isn't completely new.
 It's been happening.
 They said, however, we have observed limited adoption in this latter category,
 especially in the consumer space because of the perceived inconvenience of physical
 security keys, buying, registering, carrying, recovering.
 And the challenges consumers face with platform authenticators as a second factor.
 For example, having to reenroll each new device.
 No easy ways to recover from lost or stolen devices.
 They said, while these drawbacks can make FIDO based solutions,
 whether based on physical security keys or platform authenticators.
 And I should explain this phrase platform authenticators.
 That just means your smartphone or your laptop.
 That's what they're they're calling that a platform authenticator as opposed to a
 physical security key.
 So make drawbacks to make FIDO based solutions, whether based on physical
 security keys or platform authenticators, a tricky proposition for users already
 accustomed to two factor authentication.
 They present an even higher barrier to adoption for users who don't or don't want
 to use two factor authentication at all and are stuck with passwords.
 And so finally, we get down to it.
 The white paper explains the FIDO Alliance and the W3C web often working group
 are proposing to address these gaps in a new version, which they call level three
 of the web often specification.
 The two approach they said to propose advances in particular bear mentioning.
 And so here they are one and two, number one.
 Using your phone as a roaming authenticator.
 That's the first of these proposed advances.
 They said a smartphone is something that end users typically already have.
 Virtually all consumer space to factor authentication mechanisms today already
 make use of the user's smartphone.
 The problem is that they do this in a way.
 They do this in a fishable manner.
 You may inadvertently enter a one time password on a Fisher's site or you may
 approve a login prompt on your smartphone, not realizing that your browser is pointed
 at the phishing site and not the intended destination.
 The proposed additions to the FIDO web often specs define a protocol that uses
 Bluetooth to communicate between the user's phone, which becomes the FIDO
 authenticator and the device from which the user is trying to authenticate.
 You know, your laptop, for example, Bluetooth, they say, requires physical
 proximity, which means that we now have a fishing resistant way to leverage the
 user's phone during authentication.
 Yeah, the hacker has to be in physical proximity, which is good.
 Right because Bluetooth is not the most secure.
 Well, I'll go ahead, go ahead.
 No, of course, squirrel solve this with a QR code that you let your phone see as we know.
 They said, with this addition to the FIDO web often standards, two factor
 deployments that currently use the user's phone as a second factor will be able to
 upgrade to a higher security level fishing resistance without the need for the user
 to carry a specialized piece of authentication hardware parens security keys.
 Oh, thank God.
 So yes, we'll be able to use our phones.
 Wonderful, that wasn't point one.
 Here's point two.
 Multi device FIDO credentials.
 OK, they say, we expect that FIDO authenticator vendors, in particular,
 those of authenticators built into OS platforms.
 This is, we've heard the names, right?
 Apple, Google, Microsoft.
 Will adapt their authenticator implementations such that a FIDO credential
 can survive device loss.
 In other words, and again, hasn't been done yet, but this is what they expect.
 We expect the FIDO authenticator vendors, blah, blah, blah.
 In other words, if the user had set up a number of FIDO credentials for different
 relying parties and relying parties is a term of art in this whole identity space.
 On their phone, if the user had set up a number of FIDO credentials for different
 relying parties on their phone, and notice that in FIDO, you need a credential per
 relying party, that is a FIDO credential for Amazon, a FIDO credential for PayPal,
 FIDO credential for Facebook, a FIDO credential for Google, blah, blah, blah, one each.
 That's so it's a one for one mapping in FIDO.
 And then they say, got a new phone that user should be able to expect that their
 FIDO credentials will be available on their new phone.
 This means that users don't need passwords anymore as they move from device to device.
 Their FIDO credentials are already there ready to be used for phishing resistant
 authentication.
 OK, now I'll just pause to note that I solve this problem with one time password
 authenticators with my chief of printer QR codes, right?
 We were talking about that last week when I when I'm enrolling on a site that uses
 a one that offers me second factor authentication with a one time password.
 And it shows me the QR code, which I can then capture with my authenticator on my phone.
 I also print the paper out and it's securely stored.
 I have a chief of them for all the places I use to factor authentication.
 So that, yeah, if I need to set up a new device that doesn't sink in some fashion
 with the authenticator in my phone, I can do that.
 It's offline.
 No one in Russia can get to it.
 It's very secure, but yeah, it's a little burdensome.
 I had to do that lots of people don't and then they get stuck if their authenticator
 won't export or transport and sink.
 So they say for these multi device FIDO credentials.
 That's so this is their term multi device FIDO credentials just means cloud sync.
 That's all that is multi device FIDO credentials.
 It is the OS platforms responsibility to ensure that the credentials are available
 where the user needs them.
 And also note that some they said note that some companies are calling
 FIDO credentials pass keys in their product implementations.
 In particular, when those FIDO credentials may be multi device credentials.
 So in other words, just for the record, pass keys is not a term of art in FIDO.
 And I imagine that the company that has a trademark on pass key is not very happy.
 You know, a lot of people noted that the government started to use the term
 fields up for one of their things.
 And it's like, yeah, I don't care, but exactly.
 So they say, just like password managers do with passwords,
 the underlying OS platform will sink the cryptographic keys that belong to a FIDO
 credential from device to device.
 This means that the security and availability of a user's synced credential
 depends on the security of the underlying OS platforms, pens,
 Googles, apples, Microsofts, et cetera, authentication mechanism for their online
 accounts and on the security method for reinstating access when all old devices are
 lost while this may not always meet the bar for use cases that require physical key
 level security. They write, it is a huge improvement in security compared to passwords.
 Each of the reference, they say colon, each of the reference platforms apply
 sophisticated risk analysis and employ implicit or explicit second factors in
 authentication, thus giving two factor like protections to many of their users.
 So this is FIDO saying, well, it's not as good as physical keys.
 We're kind of annoyed, but look, it's going to work like maybe someone will
 actually use FIDO because we're going to allow cloud syncing in this level three
 lab mode and the people who are doing the syncing are being responsible enough.
 So they said this shift from letting every service fend for themselves with their
 password-based authentication system to relying on the higher security of the
 platform's authentication mechanisms is how we can meaningfully reduce the
 Internet's overreliance on passwords at a massive scale.
 In other words, they're saying that we will rely upon the user authenticating to
 their own device, smartphone or desktop with biometrics or whatever, rather than
 authenticating to each remote site individually.
 And yes, that sounds familiar.
 Finally, they say syncing FIDO credentials, cryptographic keys between devices may
 not always be possible.
 For example, if the user is using a new device from a different vendor, which
 doesn't sync with the user's other existing devices, in such cases, the
 existence of the above mentioned standardized Bluetooth protocol enables a
 convenient and secure alternative colon.
 If the FIDO credential isn't readily available on the device from which the
 user is trying to authenticate, the user will likely have a device, for example,
 a phone nearby that does have the credential.
 So in other words, if you're using Windows and iOS won't sync to Windows, then you
 can use Bluetooth on your iOS device to get the credential over into Windows.
 They said the user will then be able to use their existing device to facilitate
 authentication from their new device.
 OK, so it appears that what this press release and the so-called pass keys, which
 again, as the white paper explains, don't actually have any to do with FIDO.
 That is the term doesn't.
 It's just the introduction of cloud syncing among devices to facilitate the
 transport of one's collection of FIDO credentials from one device to the next.
 The other piece, well, and in the case of device loss, when you get a new one,
 you re-sync with the cloud and you get all of your FIDO credentials back.
 The other piece is that the FIDO Alliance appears to have formally given up on the
 idea that we're all going to go out and purchase a hardware FIDO token when we
 all already own a smartphone that can serve the same purpose.
 The use of a possibly available Bluetooth link allows one smartphone to be used
 to authenticate to a website on a desktop that does not contain a FIDO
 authenticator with one's credentials.
 And as we said, for clarity, that's what
 squirrel provides for with a QR code and the smartphone's camera.
 And yes, speaking of squirrel, I know that the heads of everyone out there who
 understand squirrel is exploding right now because FIDO still falls very far
 short of providing the complete solution that squirrel offers.
 But having moved from simple user names and passwords to password managers and
 multi-factor authentication and then to OAuth third party authentication, we're
 now going to get FIDO, though it will apparently be popularly called passkeys.
 From the samples I've seen online, it appears that it will still be necessary to
 first identify oneself to the website being authenticated to.
 So FIDO with passkeys replaces the password, but unfortunately not the username.
 So it will continue to be somewhat more cumbersome in that way.
 The way FIDO's crypto works is it it randomly synthesizes a public and private
 key pair for each and every website the user wishes to authenticate with.
 And it gives that site the public key to retain while the FIDO authenticator
 stores the matching private key for each subsequent use for reauthenticating.
 So it's this collection of individual private authentication keys, which are
 being called pass keys that Apple Google and Microsoft will be obtaining and synchronizing
 in the cloud for their users.
 This provides for same platform cross device FIDO credential synchronization,
 which is crucial for FIDO since each new website authentication creates another
 public private key pair and it provides for credential recovery in the event of
 a device's loss and that's certainly needed to create a practical system.
 As we know, I went a different way with squirrel.
 Squirrel uses a single master key, which can be printed and stored safely.
 Or it could be loaded in the cloud if you wanted, whatever.
 From that one key, it deterministically
 synthesizes unique per site public and private key pairs based upon the website's domain name.
 And like FIDO, it gives each website the public key to use for future authentication.
 But unlike FIDO, there is no growing collection of randomly synthesized per site
 private keys that need to be retained and cloud synced among devices.
 So there's no need to back up a large collection of private keys to the cloud or
 anywhere. The only thing a squirrel user ever needs for their identity to be secure
 and fully recoverable for all websites is one piece of paper.
 And if you have multiple identities on multiple devices, you can log in for the
 first time on a device on some other device that has your same squirrel identity.
 And when you log on on on us on a still on a different device, the identity works
 because multiple devices all synthesize the same private key.
 So backing off from that, overall, this whole big announcement of past keys
 appears to have mostly been a world password day timed press event without much
 technology to back it up.
 You know, we're not getting squirrel.
 We, all of us, we're getting FIDO.
 And that means we need cloud synchronized
 past keys to make FIDO's use practical.
 The good news is we're going to get it.
 It'll be interesting to see how the how the login flow functions.
 The other the other big thing FIDO is missing is it doesn't identify you to the
 site. You still have to first identify yourself, then FIDO replaces your password.
 Squirrel did both, which was way more convenient.
 But anyway, we're not getting squirrel.
 We're getting FIDO and past keys is, you know, basically makes it makes FIDO feasible
 because you have to be able since you are synthesizing completely random keys
 for every site you visit, you've got to collect them, you've somehow got a cross
 device, sync them and Apple Google and Microsoft will be taking care of that for us.
 So it sounds like it's kind of less secure than if you used a Yuba key, I guess.
 This is this is absolutely FIDO group, the FIDO Alliance compromising themselves
 down from their ivory tower because nobody wanted FIDO.
 Yes, nobody was going to do it.
 You know, I mean, yes, high level.
 I know that there are Google employees who use their their their Titan keys to do
 things, but you know, I'm not going to succeed if everybody.
 But see, that's my other issue is not everybody has a smart device.
 I guess with this work, if you didn't have
 it's always possible to still use a username and pass that will that will never go away.
 OK, which means that's what people are going to do.
 Yes.
 Yeah, you know, my favorite example, Leo, is the person who said, I don't need a password
 manager and I said, well, you can't be using the same password everywhere.
 And she said, oh, no, I don't.
 And I said, well, I can do that.
 And she said, well, when I'm creating an account, I just bang on the keyboard a lot.
 And I said, OK, and I said, so how do you log in again?
 I mean, she said, I forgot.
 It's always it always a little there's a little line there that says I forgot my password.
 And I never knew it.
 So I did forget it.
 Yeah.
 And she said, then they send me a link and I log in with that.
 And that's actually is that's fairly secure, right?
 I mean, honestly, yeah.
 Well, you know, email use an email confirmation in order to reassert that you
 don't lose control of your email, you're OK, correct.
 And that is the segue to next week's picture of the week, which is already in
 the document waiting to be displayed.
 You don't have anything else, but that's there.
 That's right.
 Obviously, squirrel would be much more secure, but squirrel has a similar problem,
 which is it is not trivially easy to use.
 And for that reason, I think people are going to fall back to a password for
 anything single sign on is good.
 You know, I use Microsoft now for login to Windows, as you know, sends your phone
 authenticator, sends it a digit to digit number and you say, yeah, I know that number.
 And you're in that seems like is that the same thing as this phyto thing?
 It's similar.
 Well, so it's it's specific to Microsoft.
 That's right.
 And that's right.
 Yeah, and so we're we're looking for a a broad based solution, which solves the
 fishing and the I forgot my password problem, right, which is, you know, easy to use.
 The fact is we'll have to see what the flow looks like.
 It is certainly easy to do, you know, log in with Facebook, log in with Google.
 We know that that's horrific from a tracking and privacy standpoint, right?
 Because you don't do that.
 Yeah, I've stopped doing that entirely.
 Yes. Oh, my God.
 And in fact, I did hear you on on Twitter last Sunday talking about how you were
 finally thinking maybe you should be taking privacy a little more seriously.
 Yes, I admit it.
 I was wrong and that because these data brokers
 selling information about who visited Planned Parenthood over the past week for
 160 bucks.
 And what that does is it puts you if you live in Texas
 and there are now other states and soon it might criminalizing 23 other states
 interstate travel for the purpose of terminating.
 So for 160 bucks, anybody, not the way this
 Texas law works, anybody can go after you.
 So there's now probably a brisk business people buying that information
 and then suing you or law enforcement in in
 Tennessee, for instance, going after you.
 Or I guess it's I guess it's Louisiana any event.
 It's it suddenly became obvious that the government is now starting to
 go after people for things that they shouldn't be.
 And it is now dangerous to leave this stuff on.
 And that's really I think that that is you're right.
 That's that's the takeaway is that given a certain set of of existing laws,
 you could argue that there with those laws, there's a reduced risk from lack
 of privacy. Yeah.
 But if if the laws change, well, that's the problem.
 And suddenly the previous assumptions no longer hold under the new regime.
 And that's the that's the day if you trust the government, no problem.
 I no longer trust the government.
 So problem.
 Yeah. And that's too bad.
 Yeah.
 But now we have to pay more attention.
 So you've been right all along.
 I was a wide-eyed optimist.
 I am no longer.
 Steve, thank you as always.
 It's always eye opening and always fascinating.
 Pascades, I think, have a huge future.
 We're very excited about it.
 Just a couple of weeks ago, Google announced that Chrome was going to start
 supporting Pascades.
 So this is very good news.
 I think squirrel would be better as you know, we Steve Gibson fans know better,
 but Pascades is better than nothing and certainly better than passwords.
 Next, we're going to talk about the Conti Gang.
 Did they really retire?
 So last Thursday,
 advanced Intel is the name of this organization.
 A D V I N T E L dot I O is their domain.
 Advanced Intel's
 Yealousy Bogus Lofsky tweeted today,
 the official website of Conti Ransomware was shut down.
 This is last Thursday, making the end of this notorious crime group,
 he says it is truly a historic day in the intelligence community.
 And the day after that, last Friday, they published their report
 about exactly what happened.
 There's so much more to it than just someone turned the site off
 that I felt certain our listeners would find the details fascinating.
 And their report is titled Don't Blame Me, although I did perpetuate it.
 Discontinued the end of Conti's brand marks new chapter for cyber crime landscape.
 And the top of their report teases reading from the negotiations site,
 chat rooms, messengers, to servers and proxy hosts.
 The Conti brand, not the organization itself, is shutting down.
 How does this how well he says, I'm sorry.
 However, this does not mean that the threat actors themselves are retiring.
 OK, what does that what does it mean?
 Advanced Intel apparently rushed out their report.
 It contains some typos, misspelling and grammatical awkwardness,
 and they may not be native English speakers.
 So in order to in order to share it with the podcast, I cleaned it up a bit.
 But otherwise, it remains what they wrote.
 And I think everyone's going to find it.
 Interesting, they said on May 19th, the admin panel of the Conti Ransomware Gang's
 official website, Conti News, was shut down.
 The negotiation service site was also down while the rest of the infrastructure
 from chat rooms to messengers and from servers to proxy hosts was going through a
 massive reset.
 Conti News, a shame blog, is the last beacon of the group's public operation,
 where victim data was being published.
 It also served as a media tool that Conti used for their endless public statements,
 one of which led to the gang's downfall.
 We'll get to that in a minute.
 I have a snapshot of it later in the show notes.
 They said this publicity function of the blog is still technically active.
 And this activity, as shown below, is highly strategized.
 At the time of this publication, May 20th, 2022,
 Conti was even uploading anti-Americanist hate speech claiming the USA to be,
 quote, a cancerous drug addict.
 It was even uploading anti-Americanist hate speech claiming the USA to be, quote,
 a cancer on the body of the earth, unquote.
 This, however, only manifests that the website became an empty shell.
 At the same time, the crucial operational function of Conti News,
 which was to upload new data in order to intimidate victims to pay is defunct.
 As all the infrastructure related to negotiations, data uploads and hosting of
 stolen data was shut down.
 OK, so and this shutdown they wrote highlights a simple truth that has been
 evident for the Conti leadership since early spring of this year.
 The group can no longer sufficiently support and obtain extortion.
 The blogs key and only valid purpose is to leak new data sets.
 And this operation is now gone.
 This was not a spontaneous decision.
 They write, instead, it was a calculated move.
 Science of which were evident since late April.
 Two weeks ago on May 6th, Advanced Intel explained that the Conti brand and not
 organization itself was in the process of the final shutdown.
 As of May 19th, 2022, our exclusive source intelligence confirms that today
 Conti's of is Conti's official date of death.
 In this retrospective analysis,
 we will not only take an in depth look into the reasons behind the Conti shut
 down, but perhaps most importantly, assess and project the future of a new
 threat landscape that is already on the horizon.
 But first, we need to review how Conti prepared for its own demise and how
 this group, notable for its sophistry, continued to utilize information warfare
 techniques to orchestrate the shutdown until its final days in order to ensure
 the legacy of its surviving members.
 They explained shutting down ransomware's iconic criminal brand is a long
 and complicated venture.
 A notorious and prolific threat group cannot simply turn off its servers only
 to pop back up the following week with a new name and logo design.
 Even a whisper of novel threat group activity following the announcement of
 Conti's demise would likely spark immediate accusations of poorly executed
 identity theft at best immediate comparisons between the two would would
 permanently leave the new group in Conti's ghostly shadow.
 The collective that fell and the one which emerged.
 And I'll note that we've seen and commented on exactly this with previous
 ransomware operations. So these guys said,
 Reevil dark side and countless other collectives attempted the disappearing
 act, the simple approach failed miserably as what was one of the predominant
 ransomware groups active at the time.
 Conti realized that an element of performativity, they wrote, would need to be
 involved where other groups had been attempting a grand stunt with
 smoke and mirrors, Conti would try a slight of hand.
 Conti would not be itself without its project frontman, an individual operating
 under the alias Reshev AKA gangster.
 Besides being a talented coder, they were behind that this Reshev was behind
 the original Reuke payload.
 This person was an outstanding, an outstanding organizer.
 It was Reshev who set the foundation for Conti's dominance in the cyber crime
 business by creating an organizational system based on skill, teamwork, clear
 business processes, hierarchy and clear foresight.
 It's not surprising that Reshev was the first to saw Conti's structural challenges
 due to the group's public allegiance to Russia in the first days of the Russian
 invasion into Ukraine, Conti was unable to be paid since February.
 Almost no payments were given to the group while Conti's locker, you know,
 the slang for malware became highly detectable and was rarely being deployed.
 The only possible decision was to rebrand.
 For over two months, Conti Collective has been silently creating subdivisions
 that began operations before the start of the shutdown process.
 These subgroups either utilized existing Conti alter egos and locker malware
 or took the opportunity to create new ones.
 This decision was convenient for Conti as they already had a couple of
 subsidiaries operating under different names, Karakirt, Blackbite and Black Basta.
 The rebranded version of Conti, the monster splitting into pieces, but still
 very much alive, ensured that whatever form Conti's ex affiliates chose to take,
 they would emerge into the public eye before news of Conti's obsolescence
 could spread, thus controlling the narrative around the dissolution as well
 as significantly complicating any future threat attributions.
 And then they wrote, this is where the plans for what was left of Conti became
 increasingly complex, in order to hide the fact that Conti was now dispersed
 and operating via smaller, more novel brands, the former affiliates of the gang
 had to now convincingly simulate the actions of a dead brand.
 Conti's remaining infrastructure operated like an army preparing for an ambush.
 Lingering actors were left to keep their fires lit, visible from behind enemy lines.
 Meanwhile, hidden from view, Conti's most skilled agents were instead laid low
 in a nearby encampment, biting their time while watching their great and empty camp
 send out smoke signals, particularly emulating the movements of an active group.
 Conti continued to publish documents stolen from victims, most likely targets
 earlier with attacks and lined up in a sort of queue waiting for public release
 and campaigned hard for themselves on criminal forums.
 Their public persona boasted a strong and enduring foundation, even one
 that was willing to further expand the group's operations.
 From the perspective of Conti's posting history, the group appeared to be as strong
 over. OK, then they shared a snapshot of a long and quite rambling chest thumping
 post from March 30th, where a Conti representative talks up the group's
 successes, even seeking to recruit new affiliates, all apparently just smoke screen.
 Then they continue.
 However, in order to pull off their ultimate tactical maneuver, the agents left
 behind to operate from within Conti's massive empty shell now had to ensure
 antics would be with successfully lure attention away from their escaping comrades.
 To do this, they had to be certain that they left bait big enough to satisfy
 all of the opposing forces stretching this analogy.
 Conti would have to perform a grand finale, one big enough to live up to the group's
 name. And finally, on May 8th, Costa Rican President Rodrigo Chavez declared a national
 emergency as the result of a major cyber attack executed by the Conti ransomware
 gang. The massive attack, which took place against multiple Costa Rican government
 agencies, seems almost like a last ditch effort by the group to squeeze a few more
 drops of riches from foreign government funds.
 However, advanced Intel's unique adversarial visibility and intelligence
 findings led to what was in fact the opposite conclusion.
 The only goal Conti had for this final attack on Costa Rica was to use the platform
 as a tool to publicly perform their own death and subsequent rebirth.
 Advanced Intel has been tracking the preparations for this attack since April
 14th, days before even the initial compromise.
 Our prevention alert was sent on April 15th, three days before the first incident
 compromising Costa Rica's ministry of finance occurred.
 So they said that then their report links to a tweet thread in Spanish, but it appears
 to be dated from the 18th, but they then provide a screenshot, which indeed appears
 to substantiate a three day early warning of an impending attack.
 So they explain in our pre and post attack investigation, we have found three things.
 First, the agenda to conduct the attack on Costa Rica for the purpose of publicly
 instead of ransom for I'm sorry, for the purpose of publicity instead of ransom
 was declared internally by the Conti leadership.
 Second, internal communications between group members suggested that the requested
 ransom payment was far below one million US dollars, despite unverified claims of
 the ransom being 10 million US dollars, followed by Conti's own claims that the
 sum was 20 million dollars.
 A low demand such as this made to a state entity no less was only made with the
 knowledge that the group would never see payment for the ransom either way,
 you know, because their payment pipeline had been completely foreclosed on by
 sanctions against Russia and by their pronounced affiliation with Russia.
 And third, Conti was very vocal about the attack constantly adding new political
 statements and, you know, that's this kind of junk that we talked about last week.
 They say the attack on Costa Rica indeed brought Conti into the spotlight
 and helped them to maintain the illusion of life for just a bit longer while the
 real restructuring had already taken place.
 While Conti had been busy with its diversion tactics, other brands such as
 Karakirt, Blackbite and numerous other groups, which existed as extensions of
 Conti, but without taking the group's name were extremely operationally active,
 although working in silence, working concurrently with them talented
 and filtration specialists who are who are ultimately the backbone of Conti's
 gang were also more active than ever forming alliances with Blackcat,
 Evos Locker, Hive, Hello Kitty, five hands and a whole other cadre of ransomware
 groups.
 These pen testers maintain personal loyalty to the people who created Conti,
 but ultimately continued their work with other gangs in order to fully shed
 Conti's name and image.
 The situation presents the first and foremost reason for Conti's timely end,
 toxic branding.
 Indeed, the first two months of 2022 left a major mark on the Conti name.
 While there's no tangible evidence to suggest that the well known Conti leaks
 had any impact on the group's operations, the event which provoked the leak,
 Conti's claim to support the Russian government seems to have been the fatal
 blow for the group despite being revoked almost immediately.
 And we noted that at the time, remember that Conti posted the Conti team is
 officially announcing a full support of Russian government.
 If anybody will decide to organize a cyber attack or any war activities
 against Russia, we are going to use all our all possible resources to strike back
 at the critical infrastructures of an enemy.
 That statement had several key consequences.
 Advanced Intel wrote all of which deeply reshaped the environment Conti was
 operating within first by engaging in political discourse.
 Conti broke the first unspoken rule of the Russian speaking cybercrime community,
 which is not to intervene in state matters in advanced Intel's public blog
 regarding Reeville's ultimate takedown by the Russian government.
 Advanced Intel provided an in-depth analysis of this unspoken agreement,
 making case studies of the two most notable groups to break it,
 Avadon and Reeville.
 With the ongoing Russian invasion of Ukraine, it may be very plausible that
 Russia's state security apparatus is attempting to exert governmental control
 over its cyberspace, even taking down groups that appear to have been allies,
 but who exhibited undue independence with their actions.
 Advanced Intel has seen internal communication of the Conti leadership
 suggesting that the Russian FSB had been pressuring the group.
 And even though nonfactual evidence was involved,
 the Reeville scenario may have simply repeated itself with Conti,
 the group's brand becoming a target for Russian authorities despite their pledge
 loyalties.
 Second, Conti's allegiance to the Russian invasion of Ukraine provoked internal
 conflict and brought shame on the Conti name from members who were either
 ethnically Ukrainian or Russian, but supported Ukraine or simply wanted to
 maintain an anti war ethic, considering that one of these members decided to
 betray the gang and leak private Conti chat logs.
 We talked about that too, not long after the conflict began.
 This illustrated the final nail in Conti's self made coffin.
 The third and most important factor by pledging their allegiance to the
 Russian government, Conti as a brand became associated with the Russian state,
 a state that is currently undergoing extreme sanctions.
 In the eyes of the state, each ransom payment going to Conti may have potentially
 gone to an individual under sanction, turning simple data extortion into a
 violation of OFAC regulation and sanction policies against Russia.
 This liability came to a head on May 6th when the U.S.
 State Department offered rewards up to 10 million U.S. dollars for information
 that led to the takedown of the Conti group.
 As a result of these limitations, Conti had essentially cut itself off from
 the main source of income.
 They wrote our sensitive source intelligence shows that many victims were
 prohibited from paying ransom to Conti.
 Other victims and companies who would have negotiated ransomware payments were
 more were more ready to risk the financial damage of not paying the ransom
 than they were to make payments to a pro Russian state sanctioned entity.
 As advanced Intel previously stated, the end of the Conti brand does not equal
 the end of Conti as an organization.
 As seen with the Costa Rica case, Conti has been carefully planning its
 rebranding for several months, preparing a comprehensive strategy to execute it.
 The strategy is based on two pillars.
 First, Conti is adopting a network organizational structure more horizontal
 and decentralized than the previously rigid Conti hierarchy.
 This structure will be a coalition of several equal subdivisions, some of which
 will be independent, and some existing within another ransomware collective.
 However, they will all be united by internal loyalty to both each other and
 the Conti leadership, especially Reshev.
 At this point, this network includes the following groups.
 The first type being autonomous, no malware locker involved, pure data
 stealing, that's Karakurt, Black Basta, and Blackbite.
 The second type being semi-autonomous, acting as Conti loyal collective
 affiliates within other collectives in order to use their malware locker.
 That's ALF-V or ALF-5, maybe, Blackcat, Hive, Hello Kitty, Five Hands, and Avos Locker.
 The third type being independent affiliates, working individually, but
 keeping their loyalty to the organization.
 And finally, the fourth type being mergers and acquisitions where Conti
 leadership infiltrates a pre-existing minor brand and consumes it entirely, keeping
 a small brand name in place.
 The small group's leader loses their independence but receives a massive
 influx of manpower while Conti obtains a new subsidiary group.
 This is different from ransomware as a service since this network, at least at the
 time of writing, does not seem to be accepting new members as part of its
 structure. Moreover, unlike ransomware as a service, this model seems to value
 operations being executed in an organized, team led manner.
 Finally, unlike ransomware as a service, all the members know each other very well
 personally and are able to leverage these personal connections and the loyalty
 they bring. And implied in that, of course, would be some protection against
 US-based bounties against their members if they're, you know, maintain a loyal
 cohesive group. You know, one turns one in and they're subjecting themselves to
 similar reprisal.
 And finally, they finish this model is more flexible and adaptive than the previous
 Conti hierarchy while also being more secure and resilient than ransomware as a
 service.
 And finally, the other major development for this new ransomware model is the
 transition from, and this is really interesting, from data encryption to data
 exfiltration, covered extensively by advanced Intel in our analysis of
 kara-kurt and blackbite in a nutshell, relying on pure data exfiltration maintains
 most major benefits of a data encryption operation while avoiding the issues of a
 hacker altogether. Most likely, this will become the most important outcome of
 Conti's rebrand.
 The actors that formed and worked under Conti name have not and will not cease
 their forward movement within the threat landscape.
 Their impact will simply leave a different shape.
 So to our listeners, if anyone in your cyber sphere announces that Conti has
 put down and disbanded, well, now we know better.
 It appears that earlier this year as a consequence of, of, you know, we've
 talked previously about the entire reason that ransomware has come into
 existence, whether it be encrypting malware or exfiltrating and holding that
 data for ransom, it's the ability to get paid thanks to cryptocurrency, which is,
 you know, made that practical from a, from an underworld standpoint.
 But the sanctions against Russia, Conti's original proclamation that they were
 standing with, with Russia essentially cut them off from extra Russian payment
 of cryptocurrency into them.
 And that set them on a multi month course to, to basically kill Conti off while
 continuing to function as a viable ransomware organization learning from the
 mistakes they'd made before changing their structure and probably apparently
 changing the nature of, you know, what they do maliciously.
 Well, they're not fooling anyone.
 OK, that's the truth.
 We know better.
 Not so cool was the news of last week's last pass breach announcement, which,
 as I mentioned before, overwhelmed my Twitter DMS.
 So I wanted to lead with this because so many of our listeners, myself included,
 are using last pass.
 So I had as a consequence also received an email from last pass.
 The current last pass CEO and I say current because it's been just been jumping
 around somewhat recently, a guy named Kareem Tuba had the following to say in
 their online blog posting, which echoed the email that he sent to everyone.
 He said, I want to inform you of a development that we feel is important for
 us to share with our last past business and consumer community.
 Two weeks ago, we detected some unusual activity within portions of the last
 past development environment.
 After initiating an immediate investigation, we've seen no evidence that
 this incident involved any access to customer data or encrypted password vaults.
 We've determined that an unauthorized party gained access to portions of the
 last past development environment through a single compromised developer account
 and took portions of source code and some proprietary last past technical
 information in response to the incident.
 We've deployed containment and mitigation measures and engaged the leading
 cybersecurity and forensics firm.
 While our investigation is ongoing, we've achieved a state of containment,
 implemented additional enhanced security measures and see no further evidence of
 unauthorized activity based on what we've learned and implemented.
 We're evaluating further mitigation techniques to strengthen our environment.
 We've included a brief FAQ below of what we anticipate will be the most pressing
 initial questions and concerns from you.
 We will continue to update you with the transparency you deserve.
 Thank you for your patience, understanding and support.
 So note that there's not a categorical denial that anything like password vaults.
 It's just no evidence of right.
 So I feel like there's we were not completely out of the woods
 that I'd like to know that there is, in fact, not merely no evidence of, but it
 didn't happen.
 OK, I'm curious what you think about that.
 The other thing is I think this is part of the Twilio breach that this is a follow
 on on the Twilio hack, which turned out to really be problematic.
 It was pretty deep because so many people use Twilio for authentication and other
 you know, texting.
 So, so of course that we have the problem of proving a negative.
 So, you know, lack of evidence is evidence of lack and so forth.
 OK, so so the short version of the FAQ, I don't I'm not bothering to share it all,
 but it was basically that there that they believe there is to be zero impact
 upon last pass users, you know, no need to change passwords, do anything or take
 any action of any kind and I'm sure they're unhappy that this occurred since,
 you know, I'm sure that they hold their proprietary information in high regard
 and don't want attackers snooping around in it.
 But we've always known since I first checked out the technology that Joe
 Seagrist originally designed is that so long as the last pass code that runs
 our local browser vault is not itself compromised.
 No, and that's that's the key.
 I mean, that's the that's the golden goose there is the is the the script in our
 browser that knows how to decrypt the local copy of the vault.
 As long as that's not compromised, the only thing we're providing to last pass,
 the only thing they have of ours to lose is a very well protected encrypted blob
 of entropy, one from each of their users.
 You know, that's what they hold for us in the cloud, which allows them to link
 all of our devices together.
 And I'm sure this is no longer unique technology.
 I don't know that it was back then, but, you know, though I haven't looked,
 I would imagine and hope that's what every other password manager also does
 because it's the only way to do what we all want safely.
 We know that last pass uses a strong many iteration PBKDF,
 you know, a password based key derivation function, which runs in our local
 browser to encrypt all of our password data before it ever leaves our local machine.
 So you need to have a good strong password to protect your vault.
 If you have that, you're as safe as you could be.
 And presumably, you know, adding any of their other security measures,
 such as multi factor authentication, hardware, dongles, etc, only strengthens
 things from there.
 But this leaves us with the question with last pass having admitted to having
 one of their developer accounts breached, should we change password managers?
 You know, that's I would ask that directly by many of our listeners.
 And it's worthwhile question.
 Lacking any additional information and no additional information is available at this
 point, I think that's an emotional decision rather than a rational decision,
 which is not the discounted.
 I mean, I could argue that the human race is here because of the result of emotional
 decisions. You could trust no one is an emotional decision, too, I guess, right?
 Yes, yes.
 So the reason I think that that is that this is that we that we need a rational
 decision is that, you know, because there's no there's no factual basis currently
 for knowing about what matters to make an informed decision, it would be necessary
 to deeply understand the company's policies and procedures like as an insider
 and to know exactly how this particular breach occurred.
 They're not saying
 their policies and procedures would tell us how they have set up the barriers,
 which hopefully exist between their developer resources and their production
 services. You hate to think that it's so easy that all we have to do is a social
 engineer, one person, and it's all gone, right?
 And Leo, just look at what we just learned about the way Twitter operates.
 You know, it's like crap.
 OK, but but then you would also need to know that same thing about the password
 manager you were considering switching to again, an emotional decision needs no
 justification, whereas a rational decision is only about justification.
 Now, I've always been careful to draw a clear distinction between policies and
 mistakes policies are deliberate mistakes. Well, they're mistakes.
 When you're an employer, for example, this is the example you and I've often
 used Leo, you know, and an employee screws up.
 Do you fire them because they screwed up or do you consider that they made a
 mistake and have learned a valuable lesson from it?
 You know, if as a consequence of having made a mistake, they're now a better and
 valuable employee. Why give them to your competition?
 So, you know, unfortunately, we don't know enough about the inner working as a
 last pass to make an informed decision about switching.
 You know, should we now be more or less afraid?
 How does their actual policy and behavioral security after this incident
 compared to the actual security available elsewhere?
 And there's an interesting comparison because it's believed that the same nation
 state hacker who did the Twilio attack, we know DoorDash was attacked by the same
 guy, they say yes, but Octus signal and last pass.
 All it all reached roughly the same time using similar social engineering attacks.
 So, but the one who wasn't, but was attacked was Cloudflare.
 Remember this? You had this story last week, I think.
 They use Yubikis and because they use strong security, even the even that the
 social engineering attack worked, it didn't compromise them.
 Yeah. So that's that's the that's the kind of thing I'd like to see from last
 pass. Yes. Right. And and in his note, he was noncommittal.
 I mean, what he wasn't specific.
 He talked about, you know, increasing their security and tightening their boundaries
 and things is like, OK, again, it's so so so we have we have an example.
 But again, to to make a change, you need to know about where you're changing to just
 as much as you need to know about where you're changing from.
 So, you know, if last pass learned a valuable lesson, that's great.
 But I have no idea and neither does anyone else.
 Their track record is all we really have to go on and it's been good so far because
 the security architecture is good and it's the security architecture that I'm relying
 upon. At the same time, as I said, presumably everybody else's security
 architecture is equally sound because none of this should be rocket science anymore.
 Would you, if I was changing your last pass
 word at this point, would that be a reasonable response rather than changing your
 answer? No, no, no, I don't see how that has any effect because because it's the
 password which is used only locally to encrypt the blob which we send there.
 They don't have access to that or they never have they don't want it.
 And that was, you know, Joe's original, you know, his original concept.
 So if I were starting out today, all other things being equal, I would probably choose
 the word, you know, being open source. We got to say, yes, that's not why you're
 choosing them, I'm sure. No, in fact, you know, being open source, I'd be able to do
 the same sort of security architecture vetting that I once did with last pass's
 designer, Joe Seagrist. As we all know, as you just said and reminded us, Bitwarden
 is currently a sponsor of the Twit Network and I think that's great.
 Though it's worth noting that last pass had never been a sponsor here at the time
 I chose them. Yes, I chose them because you chose them.
 I think many years later, I figured it was. Yeah. Yeah.
 You know, I chose them because Joe was more open than everyone else, which allowed
 me to understand exactly how their system worked and why it was the proper design.
 It's kind of ironic because if, in fact, what the bad guys got from last pass is
 the source code, Bitwarden's open source, they got that already.
 Is this right? It's right. And in a properly designed system, it should matter.
 It shouldn't matter. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah.
 So anyway, many of the flood of DMs I received last Thursday asked whether I was
 still using last pass. And if so, whether I was now planning to change security now
 podcast number 256.
 I love that it was two to the power of eight.
 Was dated July 9th, 2010, and it was titled last pass security.
 The little summary description for it on Twitch says, Steve thoroughly evaluates
 last pass explains why high security passwords are necessary and tells us how
 last pass makes storing those passwords secure.
 So it looks like I've been using last pass for the past 12 years and I still am.
 If they ever give me a rational reason to change, I will in a heartbeat and whether
 or not Bitwarden is still a sponsor of the Twitch network at the time, I would
 probably go there because openness matters.
 But, you know, so does inertia and the devil, you know.
 So anyway, I still use them.
 I don't see any reason to change subject to additional information coming to light.
 You know, there's never been a breach that that affected our, our stored
 security because of the way it's designed.
 And that's what, you know, and that's really what counts.
 And then it's a matter of looking at the pricing and the features and, you know,
 does it what suits your your model best?
 I just never have a problem with it.
 So it's not it's not irritating me.
 And I have a very soft spot in my heart for last pass, not only because of your
 support, and I use them for many, many years, but when they became the studio
 sponsor a few years ago, they kept us on the air through COVID.
 If it weren't for last pass, I don't know if we'd still be on the air.
 So I have a very soft spot for last pass.
 I do use Bitwarden.
 I like the idea of open source, but I think there's pretty much feature
 parity between most password managers at this point.
 Yeah, and it really is just inertia.
 It's like there's no good reason for me to leave because it works.
 And if they're when there is, yeah, I'll be out of there like in a hot second.
 But so far so good disaster averted nothing to fear here.
 Move along, move along.
 Well, that's why you listen to security now, right?
 Because Steve is such a trusted voice.
 When he says something's a problem, it's a problem when he says it's not a problem.
 You can trust him, but that's why you got to keep listening.
 We've had a great 2022.
 I thank Steve so much for making it so.
 And I thank you for listening and I hope you will be back with us next Tuesday.
 January 3rd, whole new year, whole new security now, lots of episodes.
 And whatever happens in the world out there, you know, you can count on Steve
 and security now right here.
 Thanks for being a part of the show.
 Thanks to all of our producers and staff who make this show possible to our producer,
 Jason Howell, of course, to Steve Gibson, couldn't do it without him.
 And most of all, thanks to you for listening.
 Have a wonderful, wonderful holiday season.
 Have a good New Year's Eve.
 Be good as I want you back here, January 3rd for security now.
 We'll see you then. Happy New Year, everybody.
 Hey, what's going on, everybody?
 I am at Pruitt and I am the host of Hands on Photography here on Twit TV.
 I know you got yourself a fancy smartphone.
 You got yourself a fancy camera, but your pictures are still lacking.
 Can't quite figure out what the head shutter speed means.
 Watch my show.
 I got you covered.
 Want to know more about just the ISO and exposure triangle in general?
 Yeah, I got you covered.
 Or if you got all of that down, you want to get into lighting, you know,
 making things look better by changing the lights around.
 I got you covered on that too.
 So check us out each and every Thursday here in the network or the twit.tv/hop and subscribe today.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
